A SKETCH. 
CHAPTER I. 

This is my beloved Son. 

Reuben Sachs was the pride of his family. 

After a highly successful career at one of 
the great London day schools, he had gone 
up on a scholarship to the University, where, 
if indeed he had chosen to turn aside from 
the beaten paths of academic distinction, he 
had made good use of his time in more ways 
than one. 

The fact that he was a Jew had proved 
c B 
no bar to his popularity ; he had gained 
many desirable friends and had, to some 
extent, shaken off the provincialism inevitable 
to one born and bred in the 
Jewish community. 

At the bar, to which in due course “he 
was called, his usual good fortune did not 
desert him. 

Before he was twenty-five he had begun to 
be spoken of as " rising " ; and at twenty 
six, by unsuccessfully contesting a hard 
fought election, had attracted to himself 
attention of another sort. He had no objection, 
he said, to the woolsack ; but a career 
of political distinction was growing slowly 
but surely to be his leading aim in life. 

" He will never starve, " said his mother, 
shrugging her shoulders with a comfortable 
consciousness of safe investments ; " and he 
must marry money. But Reuben can be 
trusted to do nothing rash." In the midst 
of so much that was highly promising, his 
health had broken down suddenly, and he 
had gone off grumbling to the antipodes. 

It was a case of over work, of over strain, 
of nervous break down, said the doctors ; no 
doubt a sea voyage would set him right 
aofain, but he must be careful of himself 
in the future. 

" More than half my nervous patients are 
recruited from the ranks of the Jews, " said 
the great physician whom Reuben consulted. 
" You pay the penalty of too high a civilization." 


" On the other hand, " Reuben answered, 
“we never die; so we may be said to have 
our compensations." 

Reuben's father had not born out his son's 
theory ; he had died many years before my 
story opens, greatly to his own surprise and 
that of a family which could boast more than 
one nonogenarian in a generation. 

B 2 
He had left his wife and children well 
provided for, and the house in Lancaster 
Gate was rich in material comfort. 

In the drawing-room of this house Mrs. 
Sachs and her dauq^hter were sittinof on 
the day of Reuben's return from his six 
months absence. 

He had arrived early in the day, and was 
now sleeping off the effects of a night passed 
in travelling, and of the plentiful supply of 
fatted calf with which he had been welcomed. 

His devoted womankind meanwhile sipped 
their tea in the fading light of the September 
afternoon, and talked over the event of the 
day in the rapid, nervous tones peculiar to 
them. 

Mrs. Sachs was an elderly woman, stout 
and short, with a wide, sallow, impassive 
face, lighted up by occasional gleams of 
shrewdness from a pair of half shut eyes. 

An indescribable air of intense, but subdued 
vitality characterised her presence ; she did 
not appear in good health, but you saw at 
a glance that this was an old lady whom it 
would be difficult to kill. 

" He looks better, Addie, he looks very 
well indeed, " she said, the dull red spot 
of colour on either sallow cheek alone 
testifying to her excitement. 

" I have said all along, " answered her 
daughter, “that if Reuben had been a poor 
man the doctors would never have found 
out that he wanted a sea voyage at all. 
Let us only hope that it has done him 
no harm professionally." She emptied her 
tea cup as she spoke, and cut herself a 
fresh slice of the rich cake which she was 
devouring with nervous voracity, 

Adelaide Sachs, or to give her her right 
title, Mrs. Montagu Cohen, was a thin, dark 
young woman of eight or nine and twenty, 
with a restless, eager, sallow face, and an 
abrupt manner. She was richly and very 
fashionably dressed in an unbecoming gown 
of green shot silk, and wore big diamond 
solitaires in her ears. She and her mother 
indeed were never seen without such jewels, 
which seemed to bear the same relation to 
their owners as his pigtail does to the 
Chinaman. 

Adelaide was the eldest of the family ; she 
had married young a husband chosen for 
her, with whom she lived with average 
contentment. 

Reuben was scarcely two years her junior ; 
no one cared to remember the age of Lionel, 
the youngest of the three, a hopeless never 
do weel, who had with difficulty been relegated 
to an obscure colony. 

" There is always either a never do weel 
or an idiot in every Jewish family!" Esther 
Kohnthal had remarked in one of her appalling 
bursts of candour. 
The mother and daughter sat there in the 
growing dusk, amid the plush ottomans, 
stamped velvet tables, and other Philistine 
splendours of the large drawing-room, till 
the lamp lighter came down the Bayswater 
Road and the gilt clock on the mantelpiece 
struck six. 

Almost at the same moment the door 
was flung open and a voice cried : 

“Why do women invariably sit in the 
dark ? " 

It was a pleasant voice ; to a fine ear, 
unmistakably the voice of a Jew, though 
the accents of the speaker were free from 
the cockney twang which marred the speech 
of the two women. 

" Reuben ! I thought you were asleep, " 
cried his mother. 

so I was. Now I have arisen like a 
giant refreshed." 

A man of middle height and slender build 
had made his way across the room to the 
window ; his face was indistinct in the darkness 
as he stooped and put his arm caressingly 
about the broad, fat shoulder of his 
mother. 

" Dressed for dinner already, Reuben ? " 
was all she said, though the hard eye under 
the cautious old eyelid grew soft as she 
spoke. 

Her love for this son and her pride 
in him were the passion of her life. 

" Dinner ? You are never going to kill the 
fatted calf twice over ? But seriously, I 
must run down to the club for an hour or 
two. There may be letters." 

He hesitated a moment, then added : " I 
shall look in at the Leunigers on my way 
back." 

" The Leunigers ! cried Adelaide in open 
disapproval. 

" Reuben, there's the old gentleman. He 
won't like your going first to your cousins, " 
said his mother. 

" My grandfather ? Oh, but my arrival 
isn't an official fact till tomorrow. We were 
sixteen hours before our time, remember. 
goodbye, Addie. I suppose you and Monty 
will be dining in Portland Place tomorrow 
with the rest of us. What a gathering of 
the clans ! Well, I must be off. " And he 
suited the action to the word. 

" Why on earth need he rush off like that 
to the Leunicjers ? " said Mrs. Cohen as 
she drew on her gloves. 

Her mother looked across at her through 
the dusk. 

" Reuben will do nothing rash, " she 
said. 
Whatever my mood is, I love Piccadilly. 

londoji Lyrics. 

Reuben Sachs stepped into the twillt 
street with a distinct sense of exhilaration. 

He was back again ; back to the old, full, 
strenuous life which was so dear to him ; to 
the din and rush and struggle of the London 
which he loved with a passion that had 
something of poetry in it. 

With the eager curiosity, the vivid interest 
in life, which underlay his rather impassive 
bearing, it was impossible that foreign travel 
should be without charm for him ; but he 
returned with unmixed delight to his own 
haunts ; to the work and the play ; the 
marketplace, and the greetings in the marketplace 
; to the innumerable pleasantnesses of an 
existence which owed something of its piquancy 
to the fact that it was led partly in 
the democratic atmosphere of modern London, 
partly in the conservative precincts of the 
Jewish community. 

Now as he lingered a moment on the 
pavement, looking up and down the road 
for a hansom, the light from the street 
lamp fell full upon him, revealing what the 
darkness of his mother's drawinsf room had 
previously hidden from sight. 

He was, as I have said, of middle height 
and slender build. He wore good clothes, but 
they could not disguise the fact that his figure 
was bad, and his movements awkward ; unmistakably 
the figure and movements of a Jew. 

And his features, without presenting any 
marked national trait, bespoke no less clearly 
his Semitic origin. 
His complexion was of a dark pallor ; the 
hair, small moustache and eyes, dark, with 
red lights in them ; over these last the lids 
were drooping, and the whole face wore for 
the moment a relaxed, dreamy, impassive air, 
curiously Eastern, and not wholly free from 
melancholy. 

He walked slowly in the direction of an 
advancing hansom, hailed it quickly and 
quietly, and had himself driven off to Pall 
Mall. To every movement of the man 
clung that indescribable suggestion of an 
irrepressible vitality which was the leading 
characteristic of his mother. 

There were several letters for him at 
the club ; having discussed them, and been 
greeted by half a dozen men of his acquaintance, 
he dined lightly off a chop and 
a glass of claret, and gave himself up to 
what was apparently an exceedingly pleasant 
reverie. 
The club where he sat was not, as he 
himself would have been the first to 
acknowledge, in the front rank of such institutions 
; but it was respectable and had its 
advantages. As for its drawbacks, supported 
by his sense of better things to come, Reuben 
Sachs could tolerate them. 

It was nearly half past eight when Reuben's 
cab drew up before the Leunigers' house in 
Kensington Palace Gardens, where a blaze of 
liorht from the lower windows told him that 
he had come on no vain errand. 

Israel Leuniger had begun life as a clerk 
on the Stock Exchange, where he had been 
fortunate enough to find employment in the 
great broking firm of Sachs co. There his 
undeniable business talents and devotion to 
his work had met with ample reward. He 
had advanced from one confidential post to 
another ; after a successful speculation on his 
own account, had been admitted into partner 
ship, and finally, like the industrious apprentice 
of the story books, had married his master's 
daughter. 

In these days the reins of government in 
Capel Court had fallen almost entirely into 
his hands. Solomon Sachs, though a wonderful 
man of his years, was too old for 
regular attendance in the city, while poor 
Kohnthal, the other member of the firm, and, 
like Leuniger, son-in-law to old Solomon, 
had been shut up in a madhouse for the 
last ten years and more. 

As Reuben advanced into the large, 
heavily upholstered vestibule, one of the many 
surrounding doors opened slowly, and a 
woman emerged with a vague, uncertain 
movement into the light. 

She might have been fifty years of age, 
perhaps more, perhaps less ; her figure was 
slim as a girl's, but the dark hair, uncovered 
by a cap, was largely mixed with grey. The 
long, oval face was of a deep, unwholesome, 
sallow tinge ; and from its haggard gloom 
looked out two dark, restless, miserable eyes ; 
the eyes of a creature in pain. Her dress 
was rich but carelessly worn, and about her 
whole person was an air of neglect. 

" Aunt Ada ! " cried Reuben, going 
forward. 

She rubbed her lean sallow hands together, 
saying in low, broken, lifeless tones : " We 
didn't expect you till tomorrow, Reuben. 
I hope your health has improved." This was 
quite a long speech for Mrs. Leuniger, who 
was of a monosyllabic habit. 

Before Reuben could reply, the door 
opposite the one from which his aunt had 
emerged was flung open, and two little boys, 
dressed in sailor suits, rushed into the hall. 

One was dark, with bright black eyes ; the 
other had a shock of flame coloured hair, 
and pale, prominent eyes. " Reuben they 
cried in astonishment, and rushed upon their 
cousin. 

" Lionel ! Sidney ! " protested their mother 
faintly as the boys proceeded to take all sorts 
of liberties with the new arrival. 

The door by which they had come opened 
again, and a man's voice cried, half in fun : 

" Why on earth are you youngsters making 
this confounded row ? Be off to bed, or 
you'll be sorry for it ! " 

Reuben was standing under the light of a 
lamp, a smile on his face, as he lifted little 
red haired Sidney from the ground and held 
him suspended by his wide sailor collar. 

" It's Reuben, old Reuben come back ! " 
cried the children. 

An exclamation followed ; the door was 
flung open wide ; Reuben set down the child 
with a laugh and passed into the lighted 
room. 
How should Love, 
Whom the cross hghtnings of four chance met eyes 
Flash into fiery life from nothing, follow 
Such dear familiarities of dawn ? 
Seldom ; but when he does, Master of all. 

Ayhner's Field. 

The Leunigers' drawing-room, in which 
Reuben now found himself, was a spacious 
apartment, hung with primrose coloured 
satin, furnished throughout in impeccable 
Louis xv and lighted with incandescent gas 
from innumerable chandeliers and sconces. 
Beyond, divided by a plush draped alcove, 
was a room of smaller size, where, at present, 
could be discerned the intent, Semitic faces 
of some half dozen card players. 

c 
In the front room four or five young 
people in evening dress were grouped, but 
at Reuben's entrance they all came forward 
with various exclamations of greeting. 

" Thought you weren't coming back till 
tomorrow! ! " 

" shouldn't have known you ; you're as 
brown as a berry ! " 

" See the conquering hero comes ! " 

This last from Rose Leuniger, a fat girl 
of twenty, in a tight fitting blue silk dress, 
with the red hair and light eyes d Jieur de 
the of her little brother. 

" I am awfully glad to see you looking 
so well, " added Leopold Leuniger, the 
owner of the voice. 

He was a short, slight person of one or 
two and twenty, with a picturesque head 
of markedly tribal character. 

The dark, oval face, bright, melancholy 
eyes, alternately dreamy and shrewd ; the 
charming, humorous smile, with its flash 
of white even teeth, might have belonged 
to some poet or musician, instead of to the 
son of a successful Jewish stockbroker. 

By his side stood a small, dark, gnomelike 
creature, apparently entirely overpowered 
by the rich, untidy garments she was wearing. 
She was a girl, or woman, whose 
age it would be difficult to determine, with 
small, glittering eyes that outshone the 
diamonds in her ears. 

Her trailing gown of heavy flowered 
brocade was made with an attempt at 
picturesqueness ; an intention which was 
further evidenced by the studied untidiness 
of the tousled hair, and by the thick strings 
of amber coiled round the lean brown neck. 

This was Esther Kohnthal, the only 
child of poor Kohnthal ; and, according 
to her own account, the biggest heiress and 
the ugliest woman in all Bayswater, 

c 2 
Shuffling up awkwardly behind her came 
Ernest Leuniger, the eldest son of the 
house, of whom it would be unfair to say 
that he was an idiot. He was nervous, 
delicate ; had a rooted aversion to society ; 
and was obliged by his state of health 
to spend the greater part of his time in 
the country. 

Esther used to shrug her shoulders and 
smile shrewdly and unpleasantly whenever 
this description of what she chose to consider 
the family skeleton was given out 
in her hearing ; she told every one, quite 
frankly, that her own father was in a 
madhouse. 

Judith Quixano came up a little behind 
the others, with a hesitation in her manner 
which was new to her, and of which 
she herself was unconscious. 

She was twenty-two years of age, in the 
very prime of her youth and beauty ; a 
tall, regal looking creature, with an exquisite 
dark head, features like those of 
a face cut on gem or cameo, and wonderful, 
lustrous, mournful eyes, entirely out 
of keeping with the accepted characteristics 
of their owner. 

Her smooth, oval cheek glowed with 
a rich, yet subdued, hue of perfect health ; 
and her tight fitting fashionable white 
evening dress showed to advantage the 
generous lines of a figure which was 
distinguished for stateliness rather than 
grace. 

Reuben Sachs had looked straight at this 
girl on entering the room ; but he shook 
hands with her last of all, clasping her 
fingers closely and searching her face 
with his eyes. They were not cousins, 
her relationship to the Leunigers coming 
from the father's side ; but there had always 
been between them a fiction of cousinship. 
which had made possible what is rare all 
the world over, but rarer than ever in the 
Jewish community — an intimacy between 
young people of opposite sexes. 

" I thought I had better come while I 
could. We were before our time, " said 
Reuben as they sat down, the whole party 
of them grouped close together, with the 
exception of Ernest, who returned to his 
solitaire board, a plaything which afforded 
him perpetual occupation. After several 
years of practice he had never arrived 
at leaving the glass marble in solitary 
state on the board ; but he lived in 
hopes. 

" While you could ! Before, in fact, 
fashion had again claimed Mr. Reuben 
Sachs for her own, " cried Esther. 

" I don't know about fashion, " answered 
Reuben with perfect good temper ; Esther 
was Esther, and if you began to mind what 
she said, you would never know where to 
stop ; " but there are a hundred things to 
be attended to. I suppose every one is going 
to the grandpater's feed tomorrow? ? " 

one was going ; then, turning to 
Leo, Reuben said: “When do you go 
up : 

" Not till October 14th 

Leopold Leuniger was on the eve of 
his third year at Cambridge. 

" What have you been doing this Long ? " 

" Oh staying about." 

" Leo has been stopping with Lord 
Norwood, but we are not allowed to mention 
it, " cried Rose in her loud, penetrating 
voice, " in case it should seem that we 
are proud." 

Leo, who was passing through a sensitive 
phase of his growth, winced visibly, and 
Reuben said in a matter of fact way : " Oh, 
by the by, I came across a cousin of Lord 
Norwood's abroad — Lee harrison ; a curious 
fellow, but a good fellow." 

" A howling swell, " added Esther, " with 
a double barrelled name." 

" Exactly. But the point about him is 
that he has gone over body and soul to 
the Jewish community." 

There was an ironical exclamation all 
round. The Jews, the most clannish and 
exclusive of peoples, the most keen to resent 
outside criticism, can say hard things of 
one another within the walls of the ghetto. 

" He says himself, " went on Reuben, 
" that he has a taste for relisrion. I believe 
he flirted with the Holy Mother for some 
years, but didn't get caught. Then he 
joined a set of mystics, and lived for three 
months on a mountain, somewhere in Asia 
Minor. Now he has come round to thinking 
Judaism the one religion, and has been 
regularly received into the synagogue." 
“And expects, no doubt, " said Esther, 
" to be rejoiced over as the one sinner that 
repenteth. I hope you didn't shatter his 
illusions by telling him that he would 
more likely be considered a fool for his 
pains : 

Reuben laughed, and with an amused 
expression on his now animated face went 
on : " He has a seat in Berkeley Street, 
and a brand new talith, but still he is not 
happy. He complains that the Jews he 
meets in society are unsatisfactory ; they 
have no local colour. I said I thought 
I could promise him a little local colour ; 
I hope to have the pleasure of introducing 
him to you all." 

They all laughed with the exception of 
Rose, who said, rather offended : " I don't 
know about local colour. We don't wear 
turbans." 

Reuben put back his head, laughing a 
little, and seeking Judith's eyes for the 
answering smile he knew he should find 
there. 

She had been keeping rather in the 
background tonight, quietly but intensely 
happy. 

Reuben was back again ! How delightfully 
familiar was every tone, every inflexion 
of his voice ! And how well she knew 
the changes of his face : the heavy dreaminess, 
the imperturbable air of Eastern 
gravity ; then lo ! the lifting of the mask ; 
the flash and play of kindling features ; the 
fire of speaking eyes ; the hundred lights 
and shades of expression that she could 
so well interpret. 

" What do his people say to it all ? " 
asked Leo. 

" Lee Harrison's ? Oh, I believe they 
take it very sensibly. They say it's only 
Bertie, " answered Reuben, rising and hold 
ing out his hand to his uncle, who sauntered 
in from the card room. 

He was a short, stout, red haired man, 
closely resembling his daughter, and at the 
present moment looked annoyed. The play 
was high and he had been losing heavily. 

" Let's have some music, Leo, " he said, 
flinging himself into an armchair at some 
distance from the young people. Rose, who 
was a skilled musician, went over to the 
piano, and Leopold took his violin from its 
case. 

Reuben moved closer to Judith, and, 
under cover of the violin tuning, they exchanged 
a few words, 

" I can't tell you how glad I am to get 
back." 

" You look all the better for your trip. 
But you must take care and not overdo it 
again. It's bad policy." 

" It is almost impossible not to." 
" But those committees and meetings and 
things" she smiled), surely they might 
be cut down ? '' 

" They are often very useful, indirectly, 
to a man in my position, " answered Reuben, 
who had no intention of saying anything 
cynical. 

There was a good deal of genuine benevolence 
in his nature, and an almost 
insatiable energy. 

He took naturally to the modern forms 
of philanthropy : the committees, the 
classes, the concerts and meetings. He 
found indeed that they had their uses, 
both social and political ; higher motives 
for attending them were not wanting ; and 
he liked them for their own sake besides. 
outdoor sports he detested ; the pleasures 
of dancing he had exhausted long ago ; 
the practice of philanthropy provided a 
vent for his many sided energies. 
The tuning had come to an end by 
now, and the musicians had taken up 
their position. 

Immediately silence fell upon the little 
audience, broken only by the click of 
counters, the crackle of a banknote in the 
room beyond ; and the sound of Ernest's solitaire 
balls as they dropped into their holes. 

Mrs. Leuniger, at the first notes of the 
tuning, had stolen in and taken up a 
position near the door ; Esther had moved 
to a further corner of the room, where she 
lay buried in a deep lounge. 

Then, all at once, the music broke 
forth. The great, vulgar, over decorated 
room, with its garish lights, its stifling 
fumes of gas, was filled with the sound 
of dreams ; and over the keen faces stole, 
like a softening mist, a far away air of 
dreamy sensuousness. The long, delicate 
hands of the violinist, the dusky, sensitive 
face, as he bent lovingly over the 
instrument, seemed to vibrate with the 
strings over which he had such mastery. 

The voice of a troubled soul cried out 
tonight in Leo's music, whose accents 
even the hard brilliance of his accompanist 
failed to drown. 

As the bow was drawn across the 
strings for the last time, Ernest's solitaire 
board fell to the ground with a crash, the 
little balls of Venetian glass rolling audibly 
in every direction. 

The spell was broken ; every one rose, 
and the card players, who by this time 
were hungry, came strolling in from the 
other room. 

Reuben found himself the centre of 
much handshaking and congratulation on 
his improved appearance. He was popular 
with his relatives, enjoying his popularity 
and accepting it gracefully. 
" No airs, like that stuck up Leo, " the 
aunts and uncles used to say. 

" There's a spread in the diningroom; ; 
you stay ? " said Rose, as Reuben 
held out his hand in farewell. 

" Not tonight." He turned last of all to 
Judith, who stood there silent, with smiling 
eyes. 

“tomorrow in Portland Place, " he said, 
clasping her hand with lingering fingers. 

As he walked home in the warm 
September night he had for once neither 
ears nor eyes for the city pageant so dear 
to him. 

He heard and saw nothing but the 
sound of Leo's violin, and the face of 
Judith Quixano. 
The full sum of me 
Is an untutored girl, unschooled, unpractised. 

Merchant of Venice. 

Judith Quixano had lived with the 
Leunigers ever since she was fifteen years 
old. 

Her mother, Israel Leuniger's sister, 
had been thought to do very well for 
herself when she married Joshua Quixano, 
who came of a family of Portuguese merchants, 
the vieille noblesse of the Jewish 
community. 

That was before the days of Leuniger's 
prosperity ; now here, as elsewhere, the 
prestige of birth had dwindled, that of money 
had increased. The Quixanos were a large 
family, and they had grown poorer with the 
years ; very gratefully did they welcome the 
offer of the rich uncle to adopt their eldest 
daughter. 

So Judith had been born away from 
the little crowded house in a dreary 
region lying somewhere between West 
bourn Park and Maida Vale to the 
splendours of Kensington Palace Gardens. 

Here she had shared everything with 
her cousin Rose : the French and German 
governesses, the expensive music lessons, 
the useless, pretentious “finishing" lessons 
from innumerable masters. 

Later on, the girls, who were about of 
an age, had gone together into such 
society as their set afforded : and here, 
again, no difference had been made 
between them. The gowns and bonnets 

D 
of Rose were neither more splendid nor 
more abundant than those of her poor 
relation, nor her invitations to parties 
more numerous. 

Rose, it is true, had a fortune of 
; !^50 ooo ; but it was a matter of common 
knowledge that her uncle would settle 
; ^5000 on Judith when she married. 

The cousins were good friends after a 
fashion. Rose was a materialist to her 
fingers ends ; she was lacking in the 
finer feelings, perhaps even in the finer 
honesties. But on the other hand she 
was easy to live with, good tempered, 
good-natured, high-spirited ; qualities which 
cover a multitude of sins. 

It will be seen that in their own fashion, 
and according to their own lights, the 
Leunigers had been very kind to Judith. 
She had no ground for complaint ; nor indeed 
was there anything but gratitude in her 
thoughts of them. If, at times, she was discontented, 
she was only vaguely aware of her 
own discontent. To rail at fate, to cry out 
against the gods, were amusements she left 
to such people as Esther and Leo, for 
whom, in her quiet way, she had considerable 
contempt. 

But the life, the position, the atmosphere, 
though she knew it not, were repressive 
ones. This woman, with her beauty, her 
intelligence, he power of feeling, saw 
herself merely as one of a vast crowd 
of girls awaiting their promotion by 
marriage. 

She had, it is true, the advantage of good 
looks ; on the other hand she was, comparatively 
speaking, portionless ; and the 
marriageable Jew, as Esther was fond of 
saying, is even rarer and shyer than the 
marrigeable Gentile. 

To marry a Gentile would have been 

D 2 
quite out of the question for her. Mr. 
Leuniger, thoroughgoing pagan as he was, 
would have set his foot mercilessly on such 
an arrangement ; it would not have seemed 
to him respectable. He was no stickler 
for forms and ceremonies; though while old 
Solomon lived a certain amount of observance 
of them was necessary ; you need 
only marry a Jew and be buried at Willesden 
or Ball's Pond ; the rest would take care 
of itself. 

But, her uncle's views apart, Judith's 
opportunities for uniting herself to an alien 
were small. 

The Leunigers had of course their Gentile 
acquaintance, chiefly people of the sham 
" smart, " pseudo fashionable variety, whose 
parties at Bayswater or South Kensington 
they attended. But the business of their 
lives, its main interests, lay almost entirely 
within the tribal limits. It was as Hebrews 
of the Hebrews that Solomon Sachs and 
his son-in-law took their stand. 

In the Community, with its innumerable 
trivial class differences, its sets within sets, 
its fine drawn distinctions of caste, utterly 
incomprehensible to an outsider, they held a 
good, though not the best position. They 
were, as yet, socially on their promotion. The 
Sachses and the Leunigers, in their elder 
branches, troubled themselves, as we have 
seen, little enough about their relations to 
the outer world ; but the younger members of 
the family, Reuben, Leo, even Adelaide and 
Esther in their own crude fashion, showed 
symptoms of a desire to strike out from the 
tribal duck pond into the wider and deeper 
waters of society. Such symptoms, their 
position and training considered, were of 
course, inevitable ; and the elders looked on 
with pride and approval, not understanding 
indeed the full meaning of the change. 
But as for Judith Ouixano, and for many 
women placed as she, it is difficult to conceive 
a training, an existence, more curiously 
limited, more completely provincial than hers. 
Her outlook on life was of the narrowest ; 
of the world, of London, of society beyond 
her own set, it may be said that she had 
seen nothing at first hand ; had looked at it 
all, not with her own eyes, but with the 
eyes of Reuben Sachs. 

She could scarcely remember the time 
when she and Reuben had not been friends. 
Ever since she was a little girl in the schoolroom, 
and he a charming lad in his first 
terms at the University, he had thought it 
worth while to talk to her, to confide to 
her his hopes, plans and ambitions ; to 
direct her reading and lend her books. 

Books were a luxury in the Leuniger 
household. We all have our economies, even 
the richest of us ; and the Leunigers, who 
begrudged no money for food, clothes or 
furniture, who went constantly into the 
stalls of the theatre, without considering 
the expense, regarded every shilling spent 
on books as pure extravagance. 

Reuben indeed was the only person who 
had any conception of Judith's possibilities, 
or, of those surrounding her, who even 
estimated at its full her rich and stately 
beauty. Their friendship, unusual enough 
in a society which retains, in relation to 
women at least, so many traces of orientalism, 
had sprung up at first unnoticed in the 
intimacy of family life. 

It was not till the last year or two that it 
had attracted any serious attention. Adelaide 
Cohen openly did everything in her power 
to check it ; and even Mrs. Sachs, with her 
rooted belief in her son's discretion, her 
conviction that he would never fail to act up 
to his creed of doing the very best for 
himself, grew anxious at times, and was 
almost glad of the chance which had sent 
him off to the antipodes. 

Aloud to her daughter, she scouted the 
notion of any serious cause for alarm. 

“It is for the girl's sake I am sorry. 
That sort of thing does a girl a great deal 
of harm. It is time she was married." 

" She has no money. Very likely she won't 
marry at all, " cried Adelaide, who was 
dyspeptic and subject to fits of bad temper. 

Meanwhile Judith, acquiescent, receptive, 
appreciative, took the good things this 
friendship offered her, and shut her eyes 
to the future. Not, as she believed, that 
she ever for a moment deceived herself. 
That would scarcely have been possible 
in the atmosphere in which she 
breathed. 

She had known from the beginning, how 
could she fail to know ? that Reuben must 
do great things for himself in every relation 
of life ; must ultimately climb to inaccessible 
heights where she could not hope to follow. 

Her pride and her humility went hand in 
hand, and she prided herself on her own 
good sense which made any mistake in the 
matter impossible. And that he was so 
sensible, was what she particularly admired 
in Reuben. 

Leo was clever, she knew ; and Esther 
after a fashion ; but these two people had an 
uncomfortable, eccentric, undignified method 
of setting about things, from the way they 
did their hair, upwards. 

But Reuben had sacrificed none of his 
dignity as a human being to his cleverness ; 
he was eminently normal, though cleverer 
than any one she knew. 

For the long haired type of man, the 
professional person of genius, this thoroughgoing 
Philistine, this conservative ingrain, 
had no tolerance whatever. She never 
could understand the mania anions some of 
the girls of her set, Rose Leuniger included, 
for the second-rate actors, musicians, and 
professional reciters with whom they came 
into occasional contact at parties. 

She had, it is seen, distinct if unformulated 
notions as to the sanity of true genius. 

And she herself ? She was so sensible, 
oh, she was thoroughly sensible and matter 
of fact ! 

Esther fell in love half a dozen times a 
season, loudly bewailing herself throughout. 
Even Rose was not without her affairs de 
coeur; ; she, Judith, was utterly free from 
such sentimental aberrations. 

That was why perhaps a man like Reuben, 
who had not much opinion of women in 
general, considering them creatures easily 
snared, should find it possible to make a 
friend of her. 
She understood perfectly Adelaide's snubs, 
Mrs. Sachs's repressive attitude, Esther's 
clumsily veiled warnings. 

She understood and was indiofnant. Did 
they think her such a fool ; a person incapable 
of friendship with a man without 
misinterpretation of his motives ? 

But Reuben knew that it was not so ; 
and therein of course lay her strength and 
her consolation. 

It was this openly matter of fact attitude 
of hers which had not only added piquancy 
to his intercourse with her, but had made 
Reuben less careful with her than he would 
otherwise have been. 

He had no wish to hurt the girl, either as 
regarded her feelings or her prospects ; nor 
was the danger, he told himself, a serious 
one. 

She liked him immensely, of course, but 
she was unsentimental, like most women of 
her race, and would settle down happily 
enough when the time came. 

He told himself these things with a secret, 
pleasant consciousness of a subtler element 
in their relationship ; of unsounded depths 
in the nature of this girl who trusted him so 
completely, and whom he had so completely 
in hand. Nor did he hide from himself that 
she charmed him and pleased his taste as no 
other woman had ever done. 

A man does not so easily deceive himself 
in these matters, and during the last year or 
two he had been fully aware of a quickening 
in his sentiments towards her. 

Yes, Reuben knew by now that he 
was in love with Judith Ouixano. The 
situation was full of delights, of dangers, 
of pains and pleasantnesses. 

A disturbing element in the serene course 
of his existence, it added a charm to existence 
of which he was in no haste to be rid. 
Quand il palit un soir, et que sa voix tremblante 
S'Eteignit tout a coup dans un mot commence ; 
Quand ses yeux, soulevant leur paupiere brulante, 
Me blesserent d'un mal dont je le cms bless ; 

ii n'aimait pas — ^j'aimais. 

M. Desbordes Valmore. 

Old Solomon Sachs awaited his guests in 
the drawing-room of his house in Portland 
Place. 

It was the night after Reuben's 
arrival, in honour of which the feast was 
given. 

Such feasts were by no means rare events, 
the old man liking to assemble his family 
round him in true patriarchal fashion. As 
for the family, it always grumbled and 
always went. 

He was a short, sturdy looking man, with 
a flowing white beard, which added size to 
a head already out of all proportion to the 
rest of him. The enormous face was 
both powerful and shrewd ; there was power 
too in the coarse, square hands, in the 
square, firmly planted feet. 

You saw at a glance that he was blessed 
with that fitness of which survival is the 
inevitable reward. 

He wore a skull cap, and, at the present 
moment, was pacing the room, performing 
what seemed to be an incantation in Hebrew 
below his breath. 

As a matter of fact, he was saying his 
prayers, an occupation which helped him to 
get rid of a great deal of his time, which 
hung heavily on his hands, now that age 
had disabled him from active service on the 
Stock Exchange. 

His daughter Rebecca, a woman far 
advanced in middle hfe, stitched drearily at 
some fancy work by the fire. She was unmarried, 
and hated the position with the 
frank hatred of the women of her race, for 
whom it is a peculiarly unenviable one. 

Reuben's mother, her daughter and son 
inlaw, were the first to arrive. 

Old Solomon shook hands with them, still 
continuing his muttered devotions, and they 
received in silence a greeting to which they 
were too much accustomed to consider in 
any way remarkable. 

" Grandpapa saying his prayers, " was 
an everyday phenomenon. Perhaps the 
younger members of the party remembered 
that it had never been allowed 
to interfere with the production of cake ; 
the generous slices had not been less 
welcome from the fact that they must be 
eaten without acknowledgment. 

Montague Cohen, Adelaide Sachs's husband, 
belonged to that rapidly dwindling 
section of the Community which attaches 
importance to the observation of the Mosaic 
and Rabbinical laws in various minute points. 

He would have half starved himself sooner 
than eat meat killed according to Gentile 
fashion, or leavened bread in the Passover 
week. 

Adelaide chafed at the restrictions imposed 
by this constant making clean of the outside 
of the cup and platter ; but it was a point on 
which her husband, amenable in everything 
else, remained firm. 

He was an anaemic young man, destitute 
of the more brilliant qualities of his race, 
with a rooted belief in himself and everything 
that belonged to him. 

He was proud of his house, his wife and 
his children. He was proud, Heaven knows 
why, of his personal appearance, his mental 
qualities, and his sex; this last to an even 
greater extent than most men of his race, with 
whom pride of sex is a characteristic quality. 

" Blessed art Thou, O Lord my God, who 
hast not made me a woman." 

No prayer goes up from the synagogue 
with greater fervour than this. 

This fact notwithstanding, it must be 
acknowledged that, save in the one matter of 
religious observation, Montague Cohen was 
led by the nose by his wife, whose intelligence 
and vitality far exceeded his own. Born 
along in her wake, he passed his life in 
pursuit of a shadow which is called social 
advancement ; going uncomplainingly over 
quagmires, into stony places, up and down 
uncomfortable declivities ; following patiently 
and faithfully wherever the restless, energetic 
Adelaide led. 
Esther and her mother were the next to 
arrive. Mrs. Kohnthal was old Solomon's 
eldest child, a stout, dark, exuberant looking 
woman, between whom and her daughter was 
waged a constant feud. 

The whole party of the Leunigers, with 
the exception of Ernest, who never dined 
out, was not long in following : Mrs. 
Leuniger, dejected, monosyllabic, untidy 
as usual ; Mr. Leuniger, cheerful, pompous, 
important ; Rose, loud voiced, overdressed, 
good tempered ; Judith, blooming, stately, 
calm, in her fashionable gown, which 
assorted oddly, a close observer might have 
thought, with the exotic nature of her 
beauty. Leo dragged in mournfully in 
the rear of his party ; he was in one of 
his worst moods. He hated these family 
gatherings, and had only been prevailed 
on with great difficulty to put in an 
appearance. 
" We are all here, " cried Adelaide, when 
greetings had been exchanged, " with the 
exception of the hero of the feast." 

“Who has evidently, " added Esther, “a 
sense of dramatic propriety." 

" Reuben is at his club, " explained Mrs. 
Sachs, looking under her eyelids at Judith, 
who had taken a seat opposite her. 

She admired the girl immensely, and 
at the bottom of her heart was fond 
of her. 

Judith, on her part, would have found it 
hard to define her feelings towards Mrs. 
Sachs. 

With Reuben she was always calm ; in his 
mother's presence she was conscious of a 
strange agitation, of the stirrings of an 
emotion which was neither love, nor hate, 
nor fear, but which perhaps was compounded 
of all three. 

They had not long to wait before the door 

E 2 
was thrown open and the person expected 
entered. 

He came straight across the room to old 
Solomon, a vivifying presence — Reuben 
Sachs, with his bad figure, awkward movements, 
and charming face, which wore tonight 
its air of greatest alertness. 

The old man, who had finished his prayers 
and taken off his cap, greeted the newcomer 
with something like emotion. Solomon 
Sachs, if report be true, had been a hard man 
in his dealings with the world ; never overstepping 
the line of legal honesty, but taking 
an advantage wherever he could do so with 
impunity. 

But to his own kindred he had always been 
generous ; the ties of race, of family, were 
strong with him. His love for his children had 
been the romance of an eminently unromantic 
career ; and the death of his favourite son, 
Reuben's father, had been a grief whose 
marks he would bear to his own dying 
day. 

Something of the love for the father had 
been transferred to the son, and Reuben stood 
high in the old man's favour. 

The greater subtlety of ambition which 
had made him while, comparatively speaking, 
a poor man, prefer the chances of a professional 
career to the certainties of a good berth 
in Capel Court, appealed to some kindred 
feeling, had set vibrating some responsive 
cord in his grandfather's breast. Such 
a personality as Reuben's seemed the 
crowning splendour of that structure of 
gold which it had been his life work to 
build up ; a luxury only to be afforded by 
the rich. 

For poor Leo's attainments, his violin 
playing, his classical scholarship, he had no 
respect whatever. 

They went down to dinner without 
ceremony, taking their places, for the most 
part, as chance directed ; Reuben sitting 
next to old Solomon, on the side of his 
best ear ; Judith at the far end of the table 
opposite. 

Conversation flagged, as it inevitably did 
at these family gatherings, until after the 
meal, when crabbed age and youth, separating 
by mutual consent, would grow loquacious 
enough in their respective circles. 

Reuben, his voice raised, but not raised too 
much, for his grandfather's benefit, recounted 
the main incidents of his recent travels, 
while doing ample justice to the excellent 
meal set before him. 

It might have been thought that he did 
not show to advantage under the circumstances 
; that his introduction of “good" 
names, and of his own familiarity with their 
bearers was a little too frequent, too obtrusive 
; that altogether there was an 
unpleasant flavour of brag about the whole 
narration. 

Esther smiled meaningly and lifted her 
shoulders. Leo frowned and winced perceptibly, 
his taste offended to nausea ; there 
were times when the coarser strands woven 
into the bright woof of his cousin's personality 
affected him like a harsh sound or evil 
odour. 

But, these two cavillers apart, Reuben 
understood his audience. 

Old Solomon listened attentively, nodding 
his great head from time to time with 
satisfaction ; Mrs. Sachs, while apparently 
absorbed in her dinner, never lost a word 
of the beloved voice ; Monty and Adelaide 
who, when all is said, were naive creatures, 
were frankly impressed, and revelled in a sense 
of reflected glory. 

As for Judith, shall it be blamed her if she 
saw no fault ? She sat there silent, now and 
then lifting her eyes to the far off corner of 
the table where Reuben was, divided between 
admiration and that unacknowledged sense 
of terror which came over her whenever the 
fact of Reuben's growing importance was 
brought home to her. Shall it be blamed 
her, I say, that she saw no fault, she who, 
where others were concerned, had sense 
of humour and critical faculty enough ? 
Shall it be blamed her that she had a 
kindness for everything he said and everything 
he did ; that he was the king and could 
do no wrong ? 

Only once during the meal did their eyes 
meet, then he smiled quietly, almost imperceptibly 
— a smile for her alone. 

" Mr. Lee harrison, " said Adelaide, 
stretching forward her sallow, eager, inquisitive 
face, on either side of which the 
diamonds shone like lamps, and plunging 
her dark, ring laden fingers into a dish of 
olives as she spoke ; " Mr. Lee harrison was 
staying at our hotel one year at Pontresina. 
He was a High Churchman in those days, and 
hardly knew a Jew from a Mohammedan." 

" He is a cousin of Lord Norwood's, " 
added Monty, who cultivated the acquaintance 
of the peerage through the pages of 
Trztth. After several years study of that 
periodical he was beginning to feel on intimate 
terms with many of the distinguished 
people who figure weekly therein. 

" A friend of yours, Leo ! " cried Adelaide 
nodding across to her cousin. 

She had a great respect for the lad, who 
affected to despise class distinctions, but 
succeeded in getting himself invited to 
such " good " houses, 

" I know Lord Norwood, " answered Leo 
with an impassive air, that caused Reuben 
to smile under his moustache. 

" He was at this year's Academy private 
view, don't you remember, Monty, with that 
sister of his, Lady Geraldine ? " went on 
Adelaide, undisturbed. 

“They are both often to be seen at San 
down, " chimed in the faithful Monty, " and 
at Kempton, " 

The Montague Cohens, those two indefatigable 
Peris at the gate, patronised art, 
and never missed a private view ; patronised 
the turf, and at every race meeting, with 
any pretensions to “smartness, " were 
familiar fiorures. 

There was but a brief separation of the 
sexes at the end of dinner, the whole party 
within a short space of time adjourning to the 
ugly, old-fashioned splendours of the drawing 
room, where card playing went on as usual. 

A game of whist was got up among the 
elders for the benefit of old Solomon, the 
others preferring to embark on the excitements 
of Polish bank with the exception of Leo, 
who never played cards, and Judith, who 
was anxious to finish a piece of embroidery 
she was preparing for her mother's birthday. 

Reuben, who had dutifully offered himself 
as a whist player and been cut out, 
lingered a few moments, divided between 
the expediency of challenging fortune at 
Polish bank, and the pleasantness of joining 
the girlish figure at the far end of the 
room. 

adelaide, shufiling her cards with deft, 
accustomed fingers, looked up and read 
something of his indecision in her brother's 
face. 

" There's a place here, Reuben, " she 
called out, drawing her silken skirts from 
a chair on to which they had overflowed. 


She was not a person of tact ; her 
remark, and the tone of it, turned the 
balance. 
" No, thanks, " said Reuben, dropping 
his Hds and assuming his most imperturbable 
air. 

It was not his custom to single out Judith 
for his attentions at these family gatherings, 
but tonight some irresistible magnetism drew 
him towards her. It only wanted that little 
goad from Adelaide to send him deliberately 
to the ottoman where she sat at work, her 
beautiful head bent over the many coloured 
embroidery. 

Leo, lounging discontentedly a few paces 
off, with something of the air of a petulant 
child who is ashamed of itself, twisted a 
bit of silk in his lonsf brown finofers and 
hummed the air of icji grollc nicht below 
his breath. 

" Judith, " said Reuben, taking a seat 
very close beside her and looking straight 
at her face, " poor Ronaldson, the member 
for St. Baldwin's, is dangerously ill." 
She looked up eagerly. 

" Then you will be asked to stand ? " 

He smiled ; partly at her readiness of 
comprehension, partly at the frank, feminine 
hard heartedness which realises nothing 
beyond the circle of its own affections. 

" You mustn't kill him off in that 
summary fashion, poor fellow." 

" I meant, of course, if he should die." 

" Under those circumstances I believe 
they will ask me to stand. That's the 
beauty of you, Judith, " he added, half 
serlously, half jestingly, " one never has 
to waste one's breath with needless explanation." 


She blushed, and smiled naively at the 
little compliment with its studied uncouthness. 


There was somethino inconcrruous in the 
girl's rich and stately beauty, in the deep, 
serious gaze of the wonderful eyes, the 
severe, almost tragic lines of the head and 
face, with her total lack of manner, her 
little, abrupt, simple air, her apparent utter 
unconsciousness of her own value and importance 
as a young and beautiful woman. 

" Judith is not a woman of the world, 
certainly, " Reuben had said on one 
occasion, in reply to a criticism of his 
sister's ; " but neither is she a bad imitation 
of one." And Adelaide, scenting a 
brotherly sarcasm, had allowed the subject 
to drop. 

Leo, who had broken his bit of silk and 
hummed his song to the end, rose at this 
point, and went from the room without a 
word. 

" Leo is in one of his moods, " said 
Judith looking after him. " I am sure I 
don't know what is the matter with him." 

Reuben, who understood perhaps more 
of Leopold's state of mind than any one 
suspected, of the struggles with himself, 
the revolt against his surroundings which 
the lad was undergoing, answered slowly : 
" He is in a ticklish stage of his growth. 
Horribly unpleasant, I grant you. But I 
like the boy, though he regards me at 
present as an incarnation of the seven 
deadly sins, " 

" You know he is very fond of you." 

" That may be. All the same, he thinks 
I keep a golden calf in my bedroom for 
purposes of devotion." 

Judith laughed, and Reuben, his face 
very close to hers, said : " Can you keep 
a secret ? " 

" You know best." 

" Well, that poor boy is head over heels 
in love with Lord Norwood's sister." 

She looked up with her most matter of 
fact air. 

“He will have to get over thai!" 
“Judith!" cried Reuben, piqued, provoked, 
inflamed by her manner; " I believe 
there isn't one grain of sentiment in your 
whole composition. Oh, I know it's a fine 
thing to be calm and cool and have one's self 
well in hand, but a woman is not always 
the worse for such a weakness as possessing 
a heart." 

There was a note in his voice new to 
her ; a look in the brown depths of his 
eyes as they met hers which she had 
never seen there before. It seemed to her 
that voice and eyes entreated her, cried to 
her for mercy ; that a wonderful answering 
emotion of pity stirred in her own breast. 

A moment they sat there looking at 
one another, then came a rustle of skirts, 
the sound of a penetrating, familiar voice, 
and Adelaide was sitting beside them. 
She had lost her part in the game for the 
time being, and, full of sisterly solicitude, 
had born down on the pair with the 
object of interrupting that dangerous tete ct 
the. 

" Reuben, " she cried gaily, " I want 
you to dine with me tomorrow" 

" don't know that I can, " he answered 
ungraciously, the mask of apathy falling 
over his features which a moment before 
had been instinct with life. 

" Caroline Cardozo is coming. She has 
; ^50 ooo, and will have more when her 
father dies. You see, " turning to Judith, 
" I am a good sister, and do not forget 
my duty." 

Judith made some commonplace rejoinder, 
and went on stitching, outwardly calm. 

Reuben, bitterly annoyed, tugged at the 
silks in the basket with those broad, 
square hands of his, which, in spite of 
their superior delicacy, were so much like 
his grandfather's. 

F 
" And, by the by, " went on Adelaide, 
nothing daunted, “you must bring Mr. 
Lee Harrison to see me, and then I can 
ask him to dinner." 

" I don't know about that, " answered 
Reuben slowly, looking at her from under 
his eyelids ; “he might swallow your Jews ; 
he walks by faith as regards them just at 
present. But as for the rest — a man 
doesn't care to meet bad imitations of the 
people of his own set, does he ? " 

Having planted this poisoned shaft, and 
feeling rather ashamed of himself, Reuben 
rose sullenly and went to the card table, 
where Rose was winning steadily, and 
Esther, who always sat down reluctantly 
and ended by giving herself up completely 
to the excitement of the game, fingered 
with flushed cheeks her own diminishing 
hoard. 

Adelaide and Judith, each in her way 
shocked at this outburst of bad temper 
from the urbane Reuben, plunged into 
lame and awkward conversation. Only 
somewhere in the hidden depths of Judith's 
being a voice was singing of triumph and 
delieht 

F 2 
He had a gentle, yet aspiring mind ; 
Just, innocent, with varied learning fed. 

Shelley : Prince Athanase. 

Judith rose early the next morning and 
put the finishing touches to her embroidery. 
It was her mother's birthday, and she had 
planned going to the Walterton Road after 
breakfast with her gift. 

But Rose claimed her for purposes of 
shopping, and the two girls set out together 
for the region of Westbourne Grove. It 
was a delicious autumn morning ; Whiteley's 
was thronged with familiar, sunburnt faces, 
and greetings were exchanged on all sides. 
The Community had come back in a body 
from country and seaside, in time for the 
impending religious festivals ; the feast of 
the New Year would be celebrated the 
next week, and the great fast, or Day of 
Atonement, some ten days later. 

" How glad every one is to get back, " 
cried Rose. " I know I hate the country ; 
so do most people, only it isn't the fashion 
to say so." 

And she nodded in passing to Adelaide, 
who, with her gloves off, was intently comparing 
the respective merits of some dress 
lengths in brocaded velvet. 

Judith smiled rather dreamily, and remarked 
that they had better go first to 
the glove department, that for the sale of 
dress materials, for which they were bound, 
being so hopelessly overcrowded. 

" Very well, " cried Rose. Then, in an 
undertone: “Look the other way; there's 
Netta Sachs. What a howling cad ! " as 
a bouncing, gaily attired daughter of Shem 
passed them In the throng. 

Rose was in her element ; she was an 
excellent shopping woman, loving a bargain 
for its own sake, grudging no time to the 
matching of colours and such patience 
trying operations, going through the business 
from beginning to end with a wholehearted 
enjoyment that was good to see. 

Judith, who had all a pretty girl's interest 
in dress, and was generally willing enough 
for such expeditions, followed her cousin 
from counter to counter, with a little amiable 
air of abstraction. 

Was there some magic In the autumn 
morning, some intoxication in the hazy, 
gold coloured air, that she, the practical, 
sensible Judith, went about like a hashish 
eater under the first delightful influence of 
the dangerous drug ? 
" What a crowd ! " ejaculated Adelaide, 
coming up to them as she turned from the contemplation 
of some cheap ribbons in a basket. 

She had, to the full, the gregarious 
instincts of her race, and Whiteley's was 
her happy hunting ground. Here, on this 
neutral territory, where Bayswater nodded 
to Maida Vale, and South Kensington 
took Bayswater by the hand, here could 
her boundless curiosity be gratified, here 
could her love of gossip have free play. 

" We are going to get some lunch, " said 
Rose, moving off ; “Judith has to go and 
see her people." 

She, too, loved the social aspects of the 
place no less than its business ones. Her 
pale, prominent, sleepy eyes, under their 
heavy white lids, saw quite as much and 
as quickly as Adelaide's dancing, glittering, 
hard little organs of vision. 

The girls lunched in the refreshment room. 
havinof obtained leave of absence from the 
family meal, then set out together from the 
shop. 

At the corner of Westbourne Grove they 
parted, Rose going towards home, Judith 
committing herself to a large blue omnibus. 

The Walterton Road is a dreary thoroughfare, 
which, in respect of unloveliness, if not 
of length, leaves Harley Street, condemned 
of the poet, far behind. 

It is lined on either side with little 
sordid grey houses, characterised by tall 
flights of steps and bow windows, these 
latter having for frequent adornment cards 
proclaiming the practice of various humble 
occupations, from the letting of lodgings to 
the tuning of pianos. 

About halfway up the street Judith 
stopped the omnibus, and mounted the 
steps to a house some degrees less dreary 
looking than the majority of its neighbours. 
Fresh white curtains hungf in the clean 
windows, while steps, scraper and doorbell 
bore witness to the hand of labour. 

Mrs. Ouixano herself opened the door 
to her daughter, and drew her by the hand 
into the sitting room, across the little hall 
to which still clung the odour of the midday 
mutton. 

" Many happy returns of the day, mamma, " 
said Judith, kissing her and offering her 
parcel. 

" I am sure it is very good of you to 
remember, my dear, '" answered her mother 
leaning back in her chair and taking in 
every detail of the girl's appearance ; her 
gown, her bonnet, the tinge of sunburn on 
her fresh young cheek, a certain indescribable 
air of softness, of maidenliness which 
was hers today. 

Israel Leuniger's sister was a stout, 
comely woman of middle age ; red haired, 
white skinned, plump, with a projecting 
under hp and comfortable double chin. 

She was disappointed with her life, but 
she made the best of it ; loving her 
husband, though unable to sympathise with 
him ; planning, working unremittingly for 
her six children ; extracting the utmost 
benefit from the narrowest of means ; a 
capable person who did her duty according 
to her own lights. 

" So Reuben Sachs has come back, " she 
said, after some conversation. 

Judith glanced up quickly with a bright, 
gentle look. 

" Yes, and he is ever so much better ; 
quite himself again." 

Mrs. Ouixano o rumbled some inarticulate 
reply. Personally, she would not have 
been sorry if he had failed to return from 
the antipodes. 

As may be imagined, she had been one 
of the first people whom the gossip about 
Reuben and her daughter had reached. 

She had begun to be jealously conscious 
that there was no one to protect Judith's 
Interests ; that, after all, it might have 
been better for the girl to take her chance in 
the Walterton Road, than waste her time 
among a set of people too greedy or too 
ambitious to marry her. 

twenty-two, and no sign of a husband ; 
only a troublesome flirtation that kept 
off the rest of the world, and was not 
in the least likely to end in anything but 
smoke. 

And yet, thought Mrs. Ouixano, with a 
sudden burst of maternal pride and indignation, 
any man might be proud of such 
a wife. 

With her beauty, her health, and her air 
of breeding, surely she was good enough, 
and more than good enough, for such a 
man as Reuben Sachs, his enormous pretensions, 
and those of his family on his 
behalf notwithstanding ? 

The door opened presently to admit two 
little dark eyed, foreign looking children — children 
such as Murillo loved to paint — 
who had just returned from a walk with a 
very juvenile nursemaid. 

They were Judith's youngest brothers, 
and as she knelt on the floor with her 
arm round one of them, administering 
chocolate and burnt almonds, she was conscious 
of a new tenderness, of a strange 
yearning affection for them in her heart. 

" The girls will be so sorry to miss seeing 
you, " said Mrs. Ouixano, taking in the 
picture before her with her shrewd 
glance ; " they are at the High School, 
and Jack, of course, is in the City." 

Jack Ouixano, the eldest of the family, 
was also its chief hope and pride. 
He had taken to finance as a duck to 
water, and from the humblest of berths 
at Sachs and co.'s, had risen in a few 
years to the proud position of authorised 
clerk. 

It had been evident, almost from the 
cradle, that he had inherited the true 
Leuniger ambition and determination to 
get on in the world, qualities which had 
shone forth so conspicuously in the case of 
his uncle Israel, and, unlike the ambition 
and determination of the Sachs family, were 
unrelieved by any touch of imagination or 
self criticism. 

" It is disappointing not to see the girls, " 
answered Judith, who was fond of her 
sisters, when she remembered them. " But 
papa, he is at home ? I shall not be disturbing 
him ? " 

A moment later she was standingf with 
her hand on the door of the room at the 
back of the house, where her father was 
accustomed to pass his time. 

Turning the handle, in obedience to a 
voice from within, she entered slowly, a 
suggestion of shyness and reluctance in 
her manner, and found herself in a tiny 
apartment, into which the afternoon sun 
was streaming. It was lined and littered 
with books, all of them dusty and many 
dilapidated. 

From the midst of this confusion of dust 
and sunlight rose a tall, lean, shabby figure : 
a middle-aged man, with stooping shoulders, 
a very dark skin, dark, straight, lank hair, 
growing close round the cheekbones, deep 
set eyes, and long features. 

“Why, Judith, my dear, " he said, with his 
vague, pleasant smile, as she came forward 
and submitted her fresh cheek to his lips. 

" I hope I don't disturb you, papa. And 
how is the treatise getting on ? " 
He shook his head and smiled, and 
Judith was content with this for an answer. 
She only asked after the treatise from 
politeness, not from any interest in the 
subject. 

Long ago in Portugal there had been 
Quixanos doctors and scholars of distinction. 
When Joshua Quixano had 
been stranded high and dry by the tides 
of modern commercial competition, he had 
reverted to the ancestral pursuits, and 
for many years had devoted himself 
to collecting the materials for a monograph 
on the Jews of Spain and 
Portugal. 

Absorbed in close and curious learning, 
in strange genealogical lore, full of a simple, 
abstract, unthinking piety, he let the world 
and life go by unheeded. 

Judith remained with her father for some 
ten minutes. Conversation between them 
was never an easy matter, yet there was 
affection on both sides. 

Ouixano's manners and customs were 
accepted facts, unalterable as natural laws, 
over which his children had never puzzled 
themselves. Some of them indeed had 
inherited to some extent the paternal temperament, 
but in most cases it had been 
overborne by the greater vitality of the 
Leunigers. But today the dusty scholar's 
room, the dusty scholar, struck Judith with 
a new force. She looked about her wistfully, 
from the book laden shelves, the paper 
strewn tables, to her father's face and eyes, 
whence shone forth clear and frank his spirit 
— one of the pure spirits of this world. 

When Judith reached home it was already 
dusk, and afternoon tea was going on in 
the morning room. 

Mrs. Leuniger was absent, and Rose 
officiated at the tea table, while Adelaide, 
her feet on the fender, her gloves off, was 
preparing for herself an attack of indigestion 
with unlimited muffins and strong tea. 

She had been paying calls in the neighbourhood, 
clad in the proof mail of her very 
best manners, an uncomfortable garment 
which she had now thrown off, and was 
reclining, metaphorically speaking, in dress 
ing gown and slippers. 

A burst of laughter from both young 
women greeted Judith's ears as she entered. 

" How late you are, " cried Rose. " What 
filial piety ! " 

Judith knelt down by the fire smiling, 
and took her part with spirit in the girlish 
jokes and gossip. 

It was six o'clock before Adelaide rose 
to go, by which time the attack of indigestion 
had set in. Her vivacity died out 
suddenly ; her features looked thick, strained, 

G 
and lifeless ; her sallow skin took a positively 
orange tinge. 

" Dear me, " she cried ill temperedly, " I 
had no idea it was so late. I must fly. I 
have one or two people dining with me 
tonight: : Cardozos, the Hanbury 
ffrenches — oh, and Reuben finds he can 
come." 

Judith felt suddenly as though a chill 
wind had struck her ; but she called out 
gaily to Rose, who was escorting Adelaide 
to the door, that there was time before 
dinner to practice the new duet. 
On this day shall He make an atonement for you, to 
purify you ; you shall be clean from all your sins. 
Leviticus xvi 30 

Herbert, or, as he was generally spoken 
of, Bertie Lee Harrison, called at Lancaster 
Gate on the day of the New Year, to make 
acquaintance with Reuben's people and offer 
his best wishes for the year 564- 

He was a small, fair, fluent person, very 
carefully dressed, assiduously polite, and 
bearing on his amiable, commonplace, neatly 
modelled little face no traces of the spiritual 
conflict which any one knowing his history 
might have supposed him to have passed 
through. 

G 2 
Esther, who happened to be calling on 
her aunt at the time of Bertie's visit, classified 
him at once as an intelligent fool ; 
but Adelaide professed herself delighted 
with the little man, and had had the joy of 
informing him that she had once met his 
sister, Lady Kemys, at a garden party. 

" Lady Kemys is charming, " Reuben said 
when the matter was beino discussed. " Sir 
Nicholas, too, is a good fellow. They have 
a place some miles out of St. Baldwin's." 

His mind ran a good deal on St. Baldwin's 
in these days, and on poor Ronaldson, its 
Conservative member, lying hopelessly ill in 
Grosvenor Place. 

Reuben, it may be added, was true to the 
traditions of his race, and wore the primrose ; 
while Leo, who knew nothing about politics, 
gave himself out as a social democrat. 

Mr. Lee harrison was to break his fast in 
Portland Place on the evening of the Day 
of Atonement, when it was old Solomon's 
custom to assemble his family round him 
in great numbers. 

Adelaide objected to this arrangement. 

" It will give him such a bad impression, " 
she said. 

" He asked for local colour, and local 
colour he shall have, " answered Reuben, 
amused. 

" It is disloyal to your own people to 
assume such an attitude regarding them to 
a stranger. After all, he is not one of us, " 
cried Adelaide, takino a hio; h tone. 

" Your accusations are a little vague, Addie ; 
but to tell you the truth I had no choice in 
the matter. I took him up yesterday to 
Portland Place, and the old man gave him 
the invitation. He simply jumped at it." 

" Those dreadful Samuel Sachses!" groaned 
Adelaide. 

" Oh, they are a remarkable survival. 
You should learn to take them in the rls^ht 
spirit, " answered her brother. 

He was dining that night at the house of 
an important Conservative M.P.., and was 
disposed to take a cheerful view of things. 

The Fast Day, or Day of Atonement, is 
the greatest national occasion of the whole 
year. 

Even those lax Jews who practice their 
callings on Saturdays and other religious 
holidays, are withheld by public opinion 
on either side the tribal barrier from doing 
so on this day of days. 

The synagogues are thronged ; and if the 
number of people who rigidly adhere to total 
abstinence from food for twenty-four hours 
is rapidly diminishing, there are still many 
to be found who continue to do so. 

Solomon Sachs, his daughter Rebecca, and 
the Montague Cohens worshipped in the 
Bayswater synagogue ; the rest of the family 
had seats in the Reformed synagogue in 
Upper Berkeley Street, an arrangement to 
which the old man was too liberal minded 
to take objection. 

The Ouixano family attended the synagogue 
of the Spanish and Portuguese Jews 
in Bryanston Street, with the exception of 
Judith, who shared with her cousins the 
simplified service, the beautiful music, and 
other innovations of Upper Berkeley Street. 

The morning of the particular Day of 
Atonement of which I write dawned bright 
and clear ; and from an early hour, in all 
quarters of the town, the Chosen People — 
a breakfastless band — miofht have been seen 
making their way to the synagogues. 

Many of the women were in white, 
which is considered appropriate wear for the 
occasion ; and if traces of depression were 
discernible on many faces, in view of the 
long day before them, it is scarcely to be 
wondered at. 

It was about ten o'clock when the 
Leunigers, who had all breakfasted, made 
their way into the great hall of the synagogue 
in Upper Berkeley Street, where the 
people were streaming in, in great numbers. 
As they paused a moment at the bottom 
of the staircase leading to the ladies gallery, 
for their party to divide according to sex, 
Reuben came up to them with Bertie Lee 
Harrison in his wake. 

There was a general hand shaking, and 
Reuben, as he pressed her fingers, smiled a 
half humorous, half rueful smile at Judith — 
a protest against the rigours and longiieitrs 
of the day which lay before them. 

She managed to say to him over her 
shoulder : 

" How is Mr. Ronaldson ?" 

" He has taken a turn for the better." 
They laughed in one another's faces. 

Bertie, struck by the effect of that sudden, 
rapidly checked wave of mirth passing over 
the beautiful, serious face, remarked to 
Reuben as they turned towards the entrance 
to their part of the building, that the Jewish 
ladies were certainly very lovely. Reuben 
said nothing ; they were by this time well 
within the synagogue, but he glanced 
quickly and coldly under his eyelids at 
Bertie picking his way jauntily to his seat. 

Ernest Leuniger, who was very devout, 
and who loved the exercise of his religion 
even more than the game of solitaire, had 
already enwound himself in his talith, 
exchanged his tall hat for an embroidered 
cap, and was muttering his prayers in 
Hebrew below his breath. 

Leo, his small, slight, picturesque figure 
swathed carelessly In the long white garment, 
with the fringes and the border of blue, his 
hat tilted over his eyes, leaned against a 
porphyry column, lost to everything but the 
glorious music which rolled out from the 
great organ. 

He had come today under protest, to 
prevent a definite break with his father, who 
exacted attendance at synagogue on no 
other day of the year. 

The time was yet to come when he should 
acknowledge to himself the depth of tribal 
feeling, of love for his race, which lay at the 
root of his nature. At present he was 
aware of nothing but revolt against, almost 
of hatred of, a people who, as far as he 
could see, lived without ideals, and was 
given up body and soul to the pursuit of 
material advantage. 

Behind him his two little brothers were 
quarrelling for possession of a prayer book. 
Near him stood his father, swaying from 
side to side, and mumbling his prayers in 
the corrupt German Hebrew of his youth — a 
jargon not recognised by the modern 
culture of Upper Berkeley Street. 

Reuben and his friend had seats opposite ; 
seats moreover which commanded a good 
view of the ladies of the Leuniger household 
in the gallery above: Mrs. Leuniger, in a 
rich lace shawl, very much crumpled, and a 
new bonnet hopelessly askew ; Rose, In a 
tight fitting costume of white, with blue 
ribbons ; Judith, in white also, her dusky 
hair, the clear, soft oval of her face surmounted 
by a flippant French bonnet — the 
very latest fashion. 

It was a long day, growing less and less 
endurable as It went on ; the atmosphere 
getting thicker and hotter and sickly with 
the smell of stale perfume. 

The people, for the most part, stuck to 
their posts throughout. A few disappeared 
boldly about lunch time, returning within an 
hour refreshed and cheerful. Some — these 
were chiefly men — fidgeted in and out of 
the building to the disturbance of their 
neighbours. One or two ladies fainted ; 
one or two others gossiped audibly from 
morning till evening ; but, on the whole, 
decorum was admirably maintained. 

Judith Quixano went through her devotions 
upheld by that sense of fitness, of 
obedience to law and order, which characterised 
her every action. 

But it cannot be said that her religion had 
any strong hold over her ; she accepted it 
unthinkingly. 

These prayers, read so diligently, in 
a language of which her knowledge was exceedingly 
imperfect, these reiterated praises 
of an austere tribal deity, these expressions 
of a hope whose consummation was neither 
desired nor expected, what connexion 
could they have with the personal needs, 
the human longings of this touchingly 
ignorant and Limited creature ? 

Now and then, when she lifted her eyes, 
she saw the bored, resigned face of Reuben 
opposite, and the respectful, attentive countenance 
of Mr. Lee Harrison, who was going 
through the day's proceedings with all the 
zeal of a convert. 

Leo had absented himself early in the day, 
and was wandering about the streets in one 
of those intolerable fits of restless misery 
which sometimes laid their hold on him. 

Esther was not in synagogue. She had 
had a sharp wrangle with her mother the 
night before, which had ended in her staying 
in bed with goodbye, Sweetheart! for 
company. 

She, poor soul, was of those who deny 
utterly the existence of the Friend of whom 
she stood so sorely in need. 
My lord, will't please you to fall to ? 

Richard ii 

A LIMP, drab coloured group was assembled 
in the drawing-room at Portland Place. 

It was nearly half past seven, and it only 
wanted the arrival of the Samuel Sachses — 
who came from the St. John's Wood synagogue 
— for the whole party to descend into 
the dinnig room, where the much needed 
meal awaited them. 

The Leunigers were there, of course, with 
the exception of Ernest and his mother, who 
had gone home ; the Sachses ; the Montague 
Cohens ; Mrs. Kohnthal and Esther, who 
had left her bed at the eleventh hour 
prompted by a desire for society ; Judith ; 
Mr. and Mrs. Ouixano, their son Jack, and 
two young sisters. 

Bertie Lee harrison, who had come in 
with Reuben, pale, exhausted, but prepared 
to be impressed by everything and every one 
he saw, confided to his friend that the twenty 
four hours fast had been the severest ordeal 
he had as yet undergone in the service of 
religion — his experiences in Asia Minor not 
excepted. 

Leo, whose mood had changed, overheard 
this confidence with an irresistible twitching 
of the lips. He was sitting on the big sofa 
with his two little brothers, making jokes 
below his breath to their immense delight ; 
while Rose, at the other end of the same 
piece of furniture, was maintaining an animated 
conversation with her cousin Jack. 

Jack Quixano was a spruce, dapper, polite 
young man of some twenty-four or twenty 
five years of age. Perhaps he was a Little too 
spruce, a Little too dapper, a little too anxious 
to put himself en Evidence by his assiduity in 
picking up handkerchiefs and opening doors. 
But few of his family noticed these defects, 
least of all Rose, on whom he was beginning 
to cast aspiring eyes, and whom he closely 
resembled in personal appearance. 

The door opened at last, to every one's 
relief, to admit the expected guests : a party 
of six — father, mother, grownup son and 
daughter, a litde girl and a little boy. 

Samuel Sachs was the unsuccessful 
member of his family. 

From the beginning, the atmosphere of the 
Stock Exchange had proved too strong for 
his not very strong brains, and his career had 
been inaugurated by a series of gambling 
debts. 

His father paid his debts and forbade 
him the office, and he had gone his own way 
for many years, setthng down ultimately in a 
humble way of business as a lithographer. 

He had married a Polish Jewess with some 
money of her own, and in these latter days 
old Solomon made him an allowance, so 
there was enough and to spare in the home 
in Maida Vale where he and his family 
were established. 

They came now into the crowded drawing 
room with a curious mixture of deference and 
self assertion. 

To their eminently provincial minds, the 
Bayswater Sachses, the Leunigers and the 
Kohnthals were very great people indeed, 
and they derived no little prestige in Maida 
Vale from their connexion with so distinguished 
a family. 

But as regarded their occasional admittance 
into the charmed circle, that was a privilege 
which, though they would on no account 

H 
have foregone it, was certainly not without 
its drawbacks. 

It was splendid, but it was not 
comfortable. 

Mrs. Sachs was a stout, dark haired 
matron, who entirely overshadowed her 
shambling, neutral tinted husband. Netta, 
the eldest daughter, was a black eyed, richly 
coloured, bouncing maiden of two or three 
and twenty, wearing a white dress, with 
elbow sleeves, cut open a little at the neck, 
and a great deal of silver jewellery. 

Alec, her brother, was a short, fair, 
exuberant looking youth, with a complexion 
both glossy and florid, in whom the sachsh 
fitness for survival had reasserted itself. 
He practised painless dentistry with great 
success in the heart of Maida Vale, and was 
writing a manual — destined to pass through 
several editions — on Diseases of the Teeth 
and Gitnis. 
Adele and Bernard pronounced Adale and 
Bernard), the two children, strutted in behind 
the others, in all the glory of white cambric 
and black velveteen, respectively, much impressed 
by the situation, but no less on the 
defensive than the elder members of their 
family. 

There was languid greeting all round ; 
languor, under the circumstances, was excusable 
; and then the whole party poured 
down into the diningroom, where an 
abundant meal was set out. 

Old Solomon prided himself on his hospitality, 
and the great table, which shone 
with snowy linen, gleaming china, and glittering 
silver, groaned, as the phrase goes, with 
good things to eat. 

There were golden brown blocks of cold 
fried fish in heavy silver dishes ; rosy piles 
of smoked salmon ; saffron tinted masses of 
stewed fish ; long twisted loaves covered 

H 2 
with seeds ; innumerable little plates of 
olives, pickled herrings, and pickled cucumbers 
; and the quick eyes of Lionel and 
Sidney had lighted at once on the many 
coloured surfaces of the almond puddings, 
which awaited the second course on the 
sideboard. 

Aunt Rebecca, faint and yellow, behind a 
the silver urns, dispensed tea and coffee with 
rapid hand ; while old Solomon, none the 
worse for his rigid fast, wielded the 
fish slice at the other end of the table. 

Bertie, respectful, wondering, interested 
through all his hunger, was seated between 
Reuben and Mrs. Kohnthal. 

Adelaide had chosen her seat as far as 
possible from the Samuel Sachses, whose 
presence was an offence to her. They, on 
their part, regarded her with a mixture of 
respect and dislike. She never gave them 
more than two fingers in her grandfather's 
house, and ignored them altogether when she 
met them anywhere else. This conduct 
impressed them by its magnificence, and 
they followed the ups and downs of her 
career, as far as they were able, with a 
passionate interest that had in it something 
of the pride of possession. 

Nor was Adelaide above taking an interest 
in the affairs of her humbler relatives behind 
their backs. I cannot help wishing that 
they had known this ; it would have been 
to them the source of so much innocent 
gratification. 

Reuben, who had his cousin Netta on the 
other side of him, and whose vanity was a 
far subtler, more complicated affair than his 
sister's, was making himself agreeable with 
his accustomed urbanity, beneath which the 
delighted maiden was unable to detect a 
lurking irony. 

The humours of the Samuel Sachses, their 
appearance, gestures, their excruciating 
method of pronouncing the English language, 
the hundred and one tribal peculiarities 
which clung to them, had long served 
their cousins as a favourite family joke into 
which it would have been difficult for the 
most observant of outsiders to enter. 

They were indeed, as Reuben had said, a 
remarkable survival. 

Born and bred in the very heart of nineteenth 
century London, belonging to an 
age and a city which has seen the throwing 
down of so many barriers, the levelling of so 
many distinctions of class, of caste, of race, of 
opinion, they had managed to retain the 
tribal characteristics, to live within the 
tribal pale to an extent which spoke worlds 
for the national conservatism. 

They had been educated at Jewish schools, 
fed on Jewish food, brought up on Jewish 
traditions and Jewish prejudice. 
Their friends, with few exceptions, were of 
their own race, the making of acquaintance 
outside the tribal barrier being sternly discouraged 
by the authorities. Mrs. Samuel 
Sachs indeed had been heard more than 
once to observe pleasantly that she would 
sooner see her daughters lying dead before 
her than married to Christians. 

Netta tossed her head defiantly at these 
remarks, but contented herself with sowing 
her little crop of wild oats on the staircases 
of Bayswater and Maida Vale, where she 
" sat out " by the hour with the very indifferent 
specimens of Englishmen who frequented 
the dances in her set. 

Generally speaking, the race instincts of 
Rebecca of York are strong, and she is 
less apt to give her heart to Ivanhoe, the 
Saxon knight, than might be imagined. 

Bernard Sachs, a very smug looking little 
boy, with inordinately thick lips and a dis 
agreeable nasal twang, had been placed 
between the two young Leunigers, who 
regarded him with a mixture of disgust 
and amusement, which they were at small 
pains to conceal. 

" Did you fast all day ? " he said, by way 
of opening the conversation. " I did. I was 
bar initz vah last month. Is either of you 
fellows bar 7nitz vah ? " 

" I am thirteen, if that's what you mean, " 
said Lionel, with his most man of the world 
air. He considered the introduction of the 
popular tribal phrases very bad form 
indeed. 

" I suppose you were in shool all day ? " 
went on Bernard unabashed, and much on 
his dignity. 

i was only in synagogue in the 
morning, " answered Lionel. Then he 
kicked Sidney violently under the table, 
and the two little brothers went off into a 
series of chuckles ; while Bernard, with a 
vague sense of being insulted, turned his 
attention to his fried salmon and Dutch 
herring. 

Meanwhile Alec, who had been rather 
subdued at the beginning of the evening, 
was regaining his native confidence as the 
meal proceeded. 

He happened to be sitting opposite Bertie, 
and having elicited from his neighbour, 
Mrs. Quixano, the explanation of an alien 
presence among them on such an occasion, 
had fixed his attention with great frankness 
on the stranger. 

Very soon he was leaning across the 
table, and with much use of his fat red 
hands, and many listings of his round 
shoulders, was expatiating to the astonished 
Bertie on the beauties and advantages of 
the faith which he had just embraced. 

" Mr. Harrison, " he cried at last — he 
preferred to skip the difficulties of the 
double barrelled name — " Mr. Harrison, take 
my word for it, it is the finest religion 
under the sun. Those who have left 
it for reasons of their own have always 
come back in the end. They'Re bound 
to, they're bound to!" He pronounced 
the word " bound " with an indescribable 
twang.) " Look at Lord Beaconsfield " — he 
pointed with his short forefinger — " everyone 
knows he died with the sheniang on 
his lips ! " 

There was a sudden stifled explosion 
of laughter from Leo's quarter of the table ; 
and Judith glanced across rather anxiously 
at Reuben, on whose polite, impassive face 
she at once detected a look of annoyance. 

She was sitting next to her father in the 
close fitting white gown which displayed 
to advantage the charming lines of her 
arms and shoulders. 
Now and then she caught the glance of 
Mr. Lee Harrison, who was far too well 
bred to obtrude his admiration by staring, 
fixed momentarily on her face. 

The hunger and weariness natural, under 
the circumstances, to her youth and health had 
in no way marred the perfect freshness of her 
appearance ; and there was a gentle kindliness 
in her manner to her father which added a 
charm, not always present, to her beauty. 

Perhaps she felt instinctively, what 
Ouixano himself was far too much in the 
clouds to notice, that no one made much 
account of him, that it behoved her to take 
him under her protection. He was one of 
this world's failures ; and the Jewish 
people, so eager to crown success in any 
form, so determined in laying claim to the 
successful among their number, have scant 
love for those unfortunates who have 
dropped behind in the race. 
The meal came to an end at last, and 
there was a pushing back of chairs on the 
part of the men. 

Bertie, about to rise, felt himself held 
down by main force ; Reuben was gripping 
him hard by the wrist with one hand, and 
with the other was enofaofed in fishinof out 
his hat from under the table ; while Netta, 
leaning across her cousin, explained with 
her most fascinating smile that grandpa 
was going to bench. 

Bertie, at a sign from Reuben, rose to 
the situation, and stooping for his own hat 
with alacrity, drew it from its place of 
concealment and placed it on his head. 
By this time all the men had unearthed 
and assumed their headgear, with the exception 
of Samuel Sachs, whose hat by 
some mischance was not forthcoming ; however, 
to avoid delay, he covered his head 
in all gravity with his table napkin. 
Bertie glanced round him, from one 
face to another, puzzled and inquiring. 

It seemed to him a solemn moment, this 
gathering together of kinsfolk after the long 
day of prayer, of expiation ; this offering 
up of thanksgiving ; this performance of 
the ancient rites in the land of exile. 

He could not understand the spirit of indifference, 
of levity even, which appeared 
to prevail. 

A finer historic sense, other motives 
apart, should, it seemed, have prevented so 
obvious a display of the contempt which 
familiarity had bred. 

Alec had put his hat on rakishly askew, 
and was winking across to him reassuringly, 
as though to intimate that the whole 
thing was not to be taken seriously. 

Rose, led on by Jack Quixano, giggled 
hysterically behind her pocket handkerchief. 

Leo and Esther took on airs of aggres 
sive boredom. Judith, lifting her eyes, met 
Reuben's in a smile, and even Montague 
Cohen permitted himself to yawn. 

Only old Solomon at the head of the 
table, mumbling and droning out the long 
grace in his corrupt Hebrew — his great 
face impenetrably grave — appeared to take 
any interest in the proceeding, with 
perhaps the exception of his son Samuel, 
who joined in now and then from beneath 
the drooping shelter of his table napkin, 

Bertie stared and Bertie wondered. Needless 
to state, he was completely out of touch 
with these people whose faith his search 
for the true religion had led him, for the 
time being, to embrace. 

Grace over, the women went upstairs, 
the men, with the exception of old 
Solomon, remaining behind to smoke. 

Bertie, who was thoroughly tired out, 
soon rose to go. 
" I will make your excuses upstairs, " 
said Reuben. 

But the polite little man preferred to go 
to the drawing-room and perform his 
farewells in person. 

" Thanks so much, " he said in the hall, 
where Leo and Reuben were speeding 
him. 

" I hope you have been edified — that's 
all." Reuben laughed. 

" I am deeply interested in the Jewish 
character, " answered Bertie ; " the strongly 
marked contrasts ; the underlying resemblances 
; the elaborate differentiations from 
a fundamental type — ! " 

“Ah, yes, " broke in Reuben, secretly 
irritated, his tribal sensitiveness a little 
hurt, " you will find among us all sorts 
and conditions of men." 

" Except perhaps Don Quixote, or 
even King Cophetua, " added Leo. 
" King Cophetua, " repeated Reuben in 
a slow, reflective tone, as the door closed 
on Mr. Lee Harrison ; " King Cophetua 
had an assured position. It isn't every one 
that can afford to marry beggar maids." 
Never by passion quite possessed, 

And never quite benumbed by the world's sway. 

Matthew Arnold. 

The party was never prolonged to a 
late hour on these occasions, and by ten 
o'clock there was no one left in the 
drawing-room in Portland Place except 
Mrs. Sachs, Mr. Leuniger, Mrs. Kohnthal 
and the young people in their respective 
trains. 

The elders had got up a game of whist 
for the amusement of old Solomon, the 
termination of which their juniors awaited 
in conclave at the other end of the room. 

Lionel and Sidney meanwhile, sleepy 

I 
and overfed, quarrelled in a corner over 
the possession of a bound volume of the 
Graphic, 

“Judith, " said Reuben, who had taken a 
seat opposite her, " do you know that you 
have made a conquest ? " 

“Is that such an unheard of occurrence reuben 
laughed gently, and Rose cried : 
“It is Mr. Lee harrison ! I know it 
from the way he looked at supper." 

" Yes, it is Bertie." Reuben looked 
straight in Judith's eyes. " He says you 
exactly fulfil his Idea of Queen Esther." 

“Ah, " cried Esther Kohnthal, “I have 
always had a theory about her. When 
she was kneeling at the feet of that 
detestable Ahasuerus, she was thinking all 
the time of some young Jew whom she 
mashed, and who mashed her, and whom 
she renounced for the sake of her 
people ! " 
A momentary silence fell among them, 
then Reuben, looking down, said slowly: 
" Or perhaps she preferred the splendours 
of the royal position even to the attractions 
of that youth whom you suppose her to — 
er — have mashed." 

He was not fond of Esther at the best 
of times ; now he glanced at her under his 
eyelids with an expression of unmistakable 
dislike. 

" I wonder, " cried Rose, throwing herself 
into the breach, “what Mr. Lee harrison 
thought of it all." 

" I think, " said Leo, " that he was shocked 
at finding us so litde like the people in 
Daniel derondaj" 

" Did he expect, " cried Esther, " to see 
our boxes in the hall, ready packed and 
labelled Palestine" 

" have always been touched, " said Leo, 
“at the immense good faith with which 

I 2 
George Eliot carried out that elaborate 
misconception of hers." 

" Now Leo is going to begin, " cried 
Rose ; “he never has a good word for 
his people. He is always running them 
down." 

" Horrid bad form, " said Reuben ; 
" besides being altogether a mistake." 

" Oh, I have nothing to say against 
us at all, " answered Leo ironically, “except 
that we are materialists to our fingers 
ends. That we have outlived, from the 
nature of things, such ideals as we ever 
had." 

idealists don't grow on every bush, " 
answered Reuben, “and I think we have 
our fair share of them. This is a materialistic 
age, a materialistic country." 

" And ours the religion of materialism. 
The corn and the wine and the oil ; the 
multiplication of the seed ; the conquest 
of the hostile tribes — these have always 
had more attraction for us than the harp 
and crown of a spiritualized existence." 

" It is no good to pretend, " answered 
Reuben in his reasonable, pacific way, " that 
our religion remains a vital force among 
the cultivated and thoughtful Jews of today. 
Of course it has been modified, as we 
ourselves have been modified, by the influence 
of western thought and western 
morality. And belief, among thinking 
people of all races, has become, as you 
know perfectly, a matter of personal idiosyncrasy." 


" That does not alter my position, " 
said Leo, “as to the character of the 
national religion and the significance of the 
fact. Ah, look at us, " he cried with sudden 
passion, “where else do you see such eagerness 
to take advantage ; such sickening, 
hideous greed ; such cruel, remorseless 
Striving for power and importance ; such 
ever active, ever hungry vanity, that must 
be fed at any cost ? Steeped to the hps 
in sordidness, as we have all been from 
the cradle, how is it possible that any 
one among us, by any effort of his own, 
can wipe off from his soul the hereditary 
stain ? " 

" My dear boy, " said Reuben, touched 
by the personal note which sounded at the 
close of poor Leo's heroics, and speaking 
with sudden earnestness, " you put things 
in too lurid a light. We have our faults ; 
you seem to forget what our virtues are. 
Have you forgotten for how long, and at 
what a cruel disadvantage, the Jewish people 
has gone its way, until at last it has shamed 
the nations into respect ? Our self restraint, 
our self respect, our industry, our power 
of endurance, our love of race, home and 
kindred, and our regard for their ties — are 
none of these things to be set down to 
our account ? " 

" Oh, our instincts of self-preservation 
are remarkably strong ; I grant you that." 

Leo tossed back his head with its lonorish 
hair as he spoke, and Reuben went on : 

" And where would you find a truer 
hospitality, a more generous charity than 
among us ? " 

" A charity whose right hand is so remarkably 
well posted up in the doings of 
its left ! " 

" Oh, come, that's a libel — and not even 
true." 

" There is one good thing, " cried Leo, 
taking a fresh start, " and that is the inevitability 
— at least as regards us English 
Jews — of our disintegration ; of our absorption 
by the people of the country. That 
is the price we are bound to pay for restored 
freedom and consideration. The Com 
munity will grow more and more to consist 
of mediocrities, and worse, as the general 
world claims our choicer specimens for its 
own. We may continue to exist as a 
separate clan, reinforced from below by 
German and Polish Jews for some time 
to come : but absorption complete, inevitable 
— that is only a matter of time. You and I 
sitting here, self conscious, discussing our 
own race attributes, race position — are we 
not as sure a token of what is to come 
as anything well could be ? " 

" Yours is a sweeping theory, " said 
Reuben ; " and at present, I don't feel 
inclined to go into the rights and wrongs 
of it ; still less to deny its soundness. I 
can only say that, should I live to see it 
born out, I should be very sorry. It may 
be a weakness on my part, but I am exceedingly 
fond of my people. If we are 
to die as a race, we shall die harder than 
you think. The tide will ebb in the intervals 
of flowing. That strange, strong instinct 
which has held us so lonsf tosfether 
is not a thing easily eradicated. It will 
come into play when it is least expected. 
Jew will gravitate to Jew, though each may 
call himself by another name. If prejudice 
died, if difference of opinion died, if all 
the world, metaphorically speaking, thought 
one thought and spoke one language, there 
would still remain those unspeakable mysteries, 
affinity and — love." reuben's 

voice sounded curiously moved, 
and in his eyes, as he spoke, glowed a dreamy 
flame, as of some deep and tender emotion. 

Judith, leaning forward with parted lips, 
lifted her shining eyes to his face in a long, 
unconscious gaze. Reuben with his sword 
in his hand, fighting the battle for his 
people, seemed to her a figure noble and 
heroic beyond speech. 
In her own breast was kindled the flame 
of a great emotion ; she felt the love of her 
race grow stronger at every word. 

Reuben, conscious to the finger tips of 
Judith's presence, of her gaze, which he did 
not return, was stirred, on his part, with 
a new enthusiasm. 

He praised her in the race, and the race 
in her ; and this was conveyed in some subtle 
manner to her consciousness. 

Thus they acted and reacted on one 
another, deceiving and deceived, with that 
strange, unconscious hypocrisy of lovers. 

The game of whist had come to an end, 
and every one rose, preparatory to departure. 

" goodnight, uncle Solomon, " said Reuben's 
mother. She, too, was a Sachs, who 
had married her cousin. 

" Come along, mamma, " cried Esther 
yawning, " I am dead beat. The domestic 
habits of the cobra are not adapted to the 
human constitution, that is clear. " 

Reuben was standing in the hall with his 
mother, as Rose and Judith came downstairs 
in their outdoor clothes. 

" Your carriage is at the door, " said 
Israel Leuniger to Mrs. Sachs as he lit 
his cigar, 

Mrs. Sachs turned to her son : 

" Aren'T you coming, Reuben ? " 

" No, but I do not expect to be late." 
He answered gently and seriously, stooping 
down and folding a shawl about her shoulders 
as he spoke. 

Mrs. Sachs raised her wide, sallow, 
wrinkled face to her son's, looked at him 
a moment, then, with a sudden impulse of 
tenderness, lifted her hand and stroked 
back the hair from his forehead. 

Ah, what had come to Judith, standing in 
a corner of the hall watching the little scene . * 
Ah, what did it mean, what was it, 
this beating and throbbing of all her pulses, 
this strange, choked feeling in her throat, 
this mist that swam before her eyesight ? 

The diningroom door, near which she 
stood, was ajar ; moved by the blind impulse 
of her terror, she pushed it open ; 
and trembling, ashamed, not daring to 
analyse her own emotions, she sought the 
shelter of the darkness. 

While Judith was being driven to Kensington 
Palace Gardens, lying back pale 
and tired in a corner of the carriage, 
Reuben was sauntering towards Piccadilly 
with a cigar in his mouth. 

For the moment, his mind dwelled on the 
fact that he had not been able to say 
goodnight to Judith. 

" Where did she make off to ? " he asked 
himself persistently. 
He was strangely irritated and baffled 
by the little accident. 

As he went slowly down Regent Street, 
which was full of light and of people returning 
from the theatres, the thought of Judith 
took more and more possession of him, till 
his pulses beat and his senses swam. 

Ah, why not, why not ? 

Children on his hearth with Judith's eyes, 
and Judith there herself amongst them : 
Judith, calm, dignified, stately, yet a creature 
so gentle withal, so sweet, so teachable ! 

He looked again and again at this picture 
of his fancy, fascinated, alarmed at his 
own fascination. 

Whatever happened, he would never be 
a poor man. There was the money which 
would come to him at his grandfather's 
death, and at his mother's : no inconsiderable 
sums. There was his own little income, 
besides what his practice brought him. 
But it was not altogether a question of 
money. He had no wish to fetter himself 
at this early stage of his career ; his ambition 
was boundless ; and the possibilities 
of the future looked almost boundless too. 

He had an immense idea of his own 
market value ; an instinctive aversion to 
making a bad bargain. 

From his cradle he had imbibed the creed 
that it is noble and desirable to have everything 
better than your neighbour ; from the 
first had been impressed on him the sacred 
duty of doing the very best for yourself. 

Yes, he was in love ; cruelly, inconveniently, 
most unfortunately in love. But 
ten years hence, when he would still be a 
young man, the fever would certainly have 
abated, would be a dream of the past, 
while his ambition he had no doubt would 
be as lusty as ever. 

Thus he swayed from side to side, 
balancing this way and that ; pitying himself 
and Judith as the victims of fate ; full 
of tenderness, of sentiment for his own 
thwarted desires. 

He believed himself to hesitate, to waver ; 
but at the bottom of Reuben's heart there 
was that which never wavered. 

He put the question by at last, wearied 
with the conflict, and gave himself up to 
pleasant dreams. 

He thought of the look in Judith's eyes, 
of the vibration in her voice when she 
spoke to him. 

“Ah, she does not know it herself!" 

Triumph, joy, compunction, an overwhelming 
tenderness, set his pulses beating, 
his whole being aglow. 

It was late when, tired and haggard, he 
reached his home and let himself in with 
the key. 
His mother came out on the landing 
with a candle. 

She did not present a charming spectacle 
en ddshabille, her large, partially bald head 
deprived of the sheltering, softening cap, 
her withered neck exposed, the lines of her 
figure revealed by a dingy old dressing 
gown. 

She orave an exclamation as she saw 
him ; the wide, yellow expanse of her face, 
with its unwholesome yet undying air, 
lighted up by the twinkling diamonds on 
either side of it, looked agitated and 
alarmed. 

" My dear boy, thank God it is you ! I 
have been dreaming about you — a terrible 
dream." 
Dusty purlieus of the law. 

Tennyson. 

Leopold Leuniger came slouching down 
Chancery Lane, his hat at the back of 
his head, a woe begone air on his expressive 
face, dejection written in his 
graceless, characteristic walk, and in the 
droop of his picturesque head, which was, 
it must be owned, a little too large for his 
small, slight figure. He turned up under 
the archway leading to Lincoln's Inn, and 
made his way to New Square, where 
Reuben's chambers were situated. 

Reuben, the clerk told him, was in court, 

K 

but was expected every minute, and Leo 
passed into the inner room, which was his 
cousin's private sanctum. It was two or 
three days after the Day of Atonement, and 
in less than a week he would be back in 
Cambridge. 

He paced restlessly to and fro in the 
little dingy room with its professional litter 
of books and papers, pausing now and 
then to look out of window, or to examine 
the mass of cards, photographs, notes and 
tickets which adorned the mantelpiece. 

Leo was by no means free from the 
tribal foible of inquisitiveness. 

It was not long before the door burst 
open, and Reuben rushed in, in his wig and 
gown. The former decoration imparted a 
curious air of sageness to his keen face, and 
brought out more strongly its peculiarities 
of colour : the clear, dark pallor of the skin, 
the red lights in the eyes and moustache. 
" Hullo ! " said Leo, still standing by the 
mantelpiece, his hat tilted back at a very 
acute angle, his restless fingers busy with 
the cards on the mantelpiece, “a nice gay 
time you appear to be having, old man : 
Jewish Board of Guardians, committee 
meeting ; Anglo jewish Association, committee 
meeting ; Bell Lane Free Schools, 
committee meeting — shall I go on ? " 

Reuben laughed. 

" You see, it consolidates one's position 
both ways to stand well with the Community 
; and I am a very good Jew at 
heart, as I have often told you. But 
if you continue your investigations among 
my list of engagements you will find 
a good many meetings of all sorts, 
which are not communal; ; to speak of 
first nights at the Terpischore and the 
Thalian." 

Leo, abandoning the subject, flung him 

K 2 
self into a chair and said : " Ah, by the by, 
how is Ronaldson ? " 

" Much the same as ever. It may be 
a long business. The doctors have left off 
issuing bulletins." 

Reuben took the chair opposite his cousin, 
then said shortly : 

" You have come to tell me something." 

" Yes. I have been having it out with 
my governor." 

“Ah?" interrogatively. 

" I told him, " went on Leo, leaning forward 
and speaking with some excitement, that 
I hadn't the faintest idea of going on the 
Stock Exchange, or even of reading for the 
bar ; that my plan was this : to work hard 
for my degree, and then stay on, on chance 
of a fellowship. Every one up there seems 
to think the matter lies virtually in my own 
hands." 

“What did my uncle say to that ?" 
" Oh, he was furious ; wouldn't listen to 
reason for a moment. I think " — with a 
boyish, bitter laugh — " that he rather confounds 
a fellow of Trinity with the assistant 
master at a Jewish boarding school. The 
word usher figured very largely in his 
arguments." 

“I think, " said Reuben slowly, “that 
you are making a mistake." 

“Ah, " cried Leo, flinging out his hand, 
“you don't understand. I can't live — I can't 
breathe in this atmosphere ; I should choke. 
Up there, somehow, it is freer, purer ; life 
is simpler, nobler." 

Reuben looked down : " I quite agree with 
you on that point. All the same, you were 
never cut out for a University don. Do 
you want me to tell you that you are a 
musician ? " 

Leo blushed like a girl, and his face 
quivered. He did not altogether approve 
of Reuben, but Reuben's approval was 
very precious to him. 

Moreover he greatly respected his cousin's 
intelligent appreciation of music. 

“Do you think so?" he cried. “That's 
what Norwood says. But there is plenty 
of opportunity for cultivating music ; we 
have Silver up there, remember. He is 
immensely kind." 

" You might talk it over with Silver. 
But think it well over and do nothing 
rash. There is plenty of time between 
now and taking your degree." 

He rose and proceeded to take off his 
wig and gown. 

" I don't know that my advice is worth 
much, " he said, “but I should say a 
year or two in Germany— — Berlin, 
Vienna — and if by then you feci justified 
in setting your face against the substantial 
eittractions of Capel Court, no 
doubt your governor can be brought 
round." 

“You will have to put it to him, 
Reuben. He believes in no one as he 
does in you." 

“Very handsome of him. But doubtless 
he will welcome the idea after the usher 
scheme." 

“You will have to paint the splendours 
of a musical success, " cried Leo, his spirits 
rising, his white teeth flashing as he smiled. 
“You must employ rather crude colours, and 
go in for obvious effects — such as the Prince 
of Wales, the Lord Mayor, and the Archbishop 
of Canterbury seated in the front 
row of the stalls at St. James's Hall." 

Reuben laughed as he put on his well 
brushed hat before the glass. 

" I will impress upon him how fashionable 
is the pursuit of the arts in these democratic 
days." He added slowly, looking furtively 
at the lad : " And shall I tell him that one 
of these days you will marry very well 
indeed ? " 

Leo rose hastily, jarred discomposed. 

" Aren'T you coming to lunch, Reuben ? '' 

" Yes, I am ready." He smiled to himself, 
and the two young men passed out 
together into the paved courtyard of the 
old inn. 

They made their way up Chancery Lane 
into Holborn. Leo hated London almost as 
vehemently as his cousin loved it. It was 
the place, he said, which had succeeded 
better than any other in reducing life to a 
huge competitive examination. Its busy, 
characteristic streets, which Reuben regarded 
with an interest both passionate 
and affectionate, filled him with a dreary 
sensation of disgust and depression. 

As they sat down to lunch at the First 
Avenue Hotel, Lord Norwood came into 
the diningroom. He was a tall, fair, aristo 
cratic looking young man, with a refined and 
thoughtful face, which, as he advanced 
towards his friend, broke into a peculiarly 
charming smile. 

Leo exclaimed with impetuosity : " Oh, 
there's Norwood!" But as the latter 
approached he stiffened into self conscious 
ness ; somehow, he did not welcome the 
juxtaposition of his cousin and his friend. 
Acting on a sudden impulse he rose and 
met the latter halfway, and the two young 
men stood talking together in the middle 
of the room. 

Reuben, after a moment's hesitation, 
rose also and joined them. He greeted 
Lord Norwood, whom he had met once 
or twice before, with a little emphasis 
of deference, which was not lost on poor 
Leo, who hated himself at the same time 
for noticing it. Lord Norwood returned 
Reuben's greeting with marked hatiteur ; 
that cousin of Leuniger's was a snob, was 
not a person to be encouraged. In the 
young nobleman's delicate, fastidious, but 
exceedingly born mind there was no 
mercy for such as he. 

Reuben, though he showed no signs of it, 
was keenly alive to the fact that he had 
been snubbed ; was alive no less keenly to 
the many points in favour of the offender. 

The Norwoods were people whom it hurt 
the subtler part of his vanity not to stand 
well with. 

They were not rich, not “smart, " not 
politically important ; but in their own 
fashion they were people of the very best 
sort, true aristocrats, such as few remain 
to us in these degenerate days. 

For generations they had born the reputation 
of high personal character and of 
scholarly attainment. They were, in the true 
sense of the word, exclusive ; and their pride 
was of that nature which, as the poet has it, 
asserts an inward honour by denying outward 
show. 

The friendship existing between Lord 
Norwood and Leo was founded on mutual 
admiration. 

The Jew's many sided talent, his brilliant 
scholarship, his mental quickness and versatility, 
above all, his musical genius, had 
fairly dazzled the scholarly young Englishman, 
who loved art, but had not a drop of 
artist's blood in his veins. 

Leo, on his part, had fallen down before 
the other's refinement of mind and soul and 
body, and before the delicate strength of 
his character. 

It was a strange friendship perhaps, but 
one which had stood, and was destined long 
to stand, the test of time. 

Meanwhile Reuben, who knew that it is 
half the battle not to know when you are 
vanquished, quietly invited Lord Norwood 
to join them at table. 

He pleaded, coldly, an appointment with 
a friend, and after a few words with Leo 
withdrew to a further apartment. 

Leo had taken in the slight, brief, yet significant 
episode in all its bearings, hating 
himself meanwhile for his own shrewdness, 
which he considered a mark of latent 
meanness. 

Reuben returned thoughtfully, if quite 
composedly, to the discussion of his roast 
pheasant and potato chips. 

His method of wiping out a snub was 
the grandly simple one of making a conquest 
of the snubber. Persons less completely 
equipped for the battle of life have been 
known to prefer certain defeat to the 
chances of such a victory. 

But Reuben was possessed of a bottomless 
fund of silent energy, of quiet resistance and 
persistence, which had stood him ere now in 
good stead under Hke circumstances. 

He appraised Lord Norwood very justly ; 
recognised instinctively the charms of mind 
and manner which had cast such glamour 
over him in his cousin's eyes ; recognised also 
his limitations, with an irritated consciousness 
that he, Reuben, was being judged at a far 
less open minded tribunal. In such cases, it 
is always the more intelligent person who is 
at a disadvantage — he appreciates, and is not 
appreciated. 

I have no intention of following out 
Reuben's relations with Lord Norwood, 
throughout which, it may be added, he had 
little to gain, even in the matter of social 
prestige, for he numbered people far more 
important among his acquaintance. But it 
was not long before an invitation to Norwood 
Towers was given and accepted. By one at 
least of the people concerned however, the 
circumstances which had marked the earlier 
stages of their acquaintance were never 
forgotten. 

A few days later saw Leo back at Trinity 
with his lexicon, his violin, and the friend 
of his heart. Here he alternately worked 
furiously and gave himself up to spells of 
complete idleness ; to sauntering, sociable 
days spent in cheerful, excited discussion of 
the vexed problems of the universe, or long 
days of moody solitude. At these latter times 
he pondered deeply on the unsatisfactoriness 
of life in general, and of his own life in 
particular, and underwent a good many 
uncomfortable sensations which he ascribed 
to a hopeless passion for his friend's sister. 

Lady Geraldine Sydenham was a gentle, 
kindly, cultivated young woman, who had not 
the faintest idea of having inspired any one 
with hopeless passion, least of all young 
Leuniger. 

She was two or three years older than Leo 
— a thin, pale person, with faint colouring, a 
rather receding chin, and slightly prominent 
teeth. 

She dressed dowdily, and even Leo did 
not credit her with being pretty. Indeed he 
took a fanciful pleasure in dwelling on the 
fact that she was plain, and in quoting to 
himself the verse from Browning's Too Late : 

" . . . . There never was to my mind 

Such a funny mouth, for it would not shut ; 

And the dented chin too — what a chin ! . . . 

You were thin, however ; like a bird's 

Your hand seemed — some would say the pounce 

Of a scaly footed hawk — all but ! 

The world was right when it called you thin." 

Meanwhile in London Bertie Lee 
Harrison was celebrating the Feast of 
Tabernacles as best he could. 
He had given up with considerable reluctance 
his plan of living in a tent, the resources 
of his flat in Albert Hall Mansions 
not being able to meet the scheme. 

He consoled himself by visits to the handsome 
sticcoiith which the Montague Cohens 
had erected in their garden in the Bayswater 
Road. 
I do not like this manner of a dance, 
This game of two and two ; it were much better 
To mix between the pauses than to sit 
Each lady out of earshot with her friend. 

Swinburne : Chasfelard. 

The Leunigers were giving a dance at the 
beginning of November, and the female part 
of the household was greatly taken up with 
preparations for the event. 

There was much revising of invitation lists, 
discussion of the social claims of their friends 
and acquaintance, and the usual anxious 
beating up of every available dancing man. 

“Addie will bring Mr. Griffiths, and 
Esther Mr. Peck, " said Rose. " They go well, 

l 
look nice, and one sees them everywhere, 
although Reuben calls them outsiders " 

Rose loved dances, as well she might, for 
from the first she had been a success. 

Rose, with her fair, plump shoulders and 
blonde hair, her high spirits and good nature, 
her nimble feet and nimble tongue ; Rose 
with her ; ^ 50 000 and twenty guinea ball 
gowns ; Rose went clown — magic phrase ! — as 
not one girl in ten succeeds in doing. 

" I suppose, " said Judith, “that the Samuel 
Sachses will have to be asked ? " 

She, though of course she had her 
admirers, was by no means such a success 
as her cousin. 

" Yes, isn't it a nuisance ? " cried Rose ; 
“and the Lazarus Harts." 

If there is a strong family feeling among 
the children of Israel, it takes often the 
form of acute family jealousy. 

The Jew who will open his doors in 
reckless ignorance to every sort and condition 
of Gentile is morbidly sensitive as 
regards the social standing of the compatriot 
whom he admits to his hospitality. 

The Leunigers, as we know, were not 
people of long standing in the Community, 
and numbered among their acquaintance 
Jews of every rank and shade ; from the 
Cardozos, who were rich, cultivated, could 
almost trace their descent from Hillel, 
the son of David, and had a footing in 
English society, to such children of nature 
as the Samuel Sachses. 

" We must have Nellie Hepburn and 
the Strettel girls, " went on Rose, consulting 
her list ; " the men all rush at them, 
though I don't see that they are so pretty 
myself." 

" I suppose they make a change from 
ourselves, " answered Judith smiling, “whose 
faces are known by heart." 

l 2 
Judith was entering with spirit, with a 
zeal that was almost feverish, into the 
preparations for the forthcoming festivity. 

She and Reuben had scarcely spoken to 
one another since the Day of Atonement. 
They had met once or twice at family 
gatherings, at which, either by accident, 
or design on Reuben's part, there had 
been no opportunity for private conversation. 


Perhaps an instinctive feeling that the old 
relations were Imperilled and that no new 
ones could ever be so satisfactory held them 
apart. 

Meanwhile Judith unconsciously fixed her 
mind on the one definite fact that Reuben 
would be at the Leunigers' dance. It was 
In the crowded solitude of ballrooms 
that they had hitherto found their best 
opportunity. 

The night so much prepared for came 
round at last, and the house in Kensington 
Palace Gardens became for the time being 
the scene of ceaseless activity. 

Ernest had gone away into the country 
with the person who was always talked of 
as his valet ; and Leo, of course, was in 
Cambridge ; but the rest of the family — not 
excepting Lionel and Sidney, who handed 
programmes — had mustered in great force 
to do honour to the event. 

From an early hour poor Mrs. Leuniger 
had taken up her station in the doorway 
of the primrose coloured drawing-room, where 
she stood dejectedly welcoming her guests. 
She was wearing a quantity of valuable 
lace, very much crumpled, and had a 
profusion of diamonds scattered about her 
person, but had apparently forgotten to do 
her hair. 

Rose, in short, voluminous skirts of pink 
tulle, and a pale pink satin bodice fitting close 
about her plump person, defining the 
lines of her ample hips, was performing 
introductions with noisy zeal, with the help 
of Jack Quixano, whom she had constituted 
her aide-de-camp. The Montague Cohens 
had come early, and Adelaide, in a very 
grand gown, scrutinised the scene with 
breathless interest, secretly wondering 
why more people had not asked her to 
dance. 

Judith was looking very well. Her short, 
diaphanous white ball gown, with its low 
cut, tight fitting satin bodice was not 
exactly a dignified garment, but she 
managed to maintain, in spite of it, her 
customary air of stateliness. 

Moreover tonight some indefinable change 
had come over the character of her beauty, 
heightening it, intensifying it, giving 
it new life and colour. The calm, 
unavvakened look which many people had 
found so baffling, had left her face ; the 
eyes, always curiously mournful, shone out 
with a new soft fire. 

Bertie Lee harrison, tripping jauntily into 
the ballroom, remained transfixed a moment 
in excited admiration. 

What a beautiful woman was this cousin, 
or pseudo cousin, of Sachs's! How infinitely 
better bred she seemed than the 
people surrounding her ! 

The Ouixanos, as Reuben had told him, 
were sephardini, for whose claim to birth 
he had the greatest respect. But as for 
that red headed young man, her brother — 
there were no marks of breeding about 
him ! 

Bertie was puzzled, as the stranger is so 
often puzzled, by the violent contrasts which 
exist among Jews, even in the case of 
members of the same family. 

Judith was standing some way off, where 
Bertie stood observing her, while two or 
three men wrote their names on her 
dancing card. 

She was one of the few people of her 
race who look well in a crowd or at a distance. 
The charms of person which a Jew 
or Jewess may possess are not usually such 
as will bear the test of being regarded as 
a whole. 

Some quite commonplace English girls 
and men who were here tonight looked 
positively beautiful as they moved about 
among the ill made sons and daughters of 
Shem, whose interesting faces gain so infinitely 
on a nearer view, even where it is 
a case of ^" enuine qrood looks. 

Bertie waited a minute till the men had 
moved off, then advanced to Miss Ouixano 
and humbly asked for two dances. Judith 
gave them to him with a smile. He was 
a poor creature, certainly, but he was 
Reuben's friend, and she knew that, in one 
way at least, Reuben thought well of him : 
he was one of the few Gentiles of her 
acquaintance whom he had not stigmatised 
as an " outsider." 

Moreover Bertie's little air of deference 
was a pleasant change from the rather 
patronising attitude of the young men of 
her set, whose number was very limited, 
and who were aggressively conscious of 
commanding the market. 

Bertie, his dances secured, moved off 
regretfully. He would have liked to sue 
for further favours, but his sense of 
decorum restrained him. Had he but 
known it, he might without exciting notice 
have claimed a third, at least, of the 
dances on Judith's card. Hard flirtation 
was the order of the day, and the 
chaperons, who were few in number, 
gossiped comfortably together, while their 
charges sat out half the night with the 
same partner. 

Rose fell upon Bertie at this point, and 
fired him off like a gun at one or two 
partnerless damsels ; while Judith, her 
partner in her wake, moved over to the 
doorway, where Adelaide was standing with 
Caroline Cardozo. 

It was eleven o'clock and Reuben had 
not come. Judith had, it must be owned, 
changed her position with a view to consulting 
the hall clock, and perhaps Adelaide 
had some inkling of this, for she said very 
loudly to her companion : 

" It is a first night at the Thalian ; my 
brother never misses one. I don't expect 
we shall see him to nis: ht. Younof men 
have so many ways of amusing themselves, 
I wonder they care about dances 
at all." 

The musicians struck up a fresh waltz, 
and Bertie came over to claim the first 
of his dances with Judith. 

He danced very nicely, in a straightforward, 
unambitious way, never reversing 
his partner round a corner without 
saying, " I beg your pardon." 

Esther, her sharp brown shoulders shuffling 
restlessly in and out of a gold coloured 
gown of moire silk, and with a string of 
pearls round her neck worth a king's 
ransom, surveyed the scene with shrewd, 
miserable eyes, while rattling on aimlessly 
to her partner and prot^gd, Mr. Peck. 

It was indeed a motley throng which 
was whirling and laughing and shouting 
across the music, in the bare, bright, 
flower scented apartment. 

The great majority of the people were 
Jews — Jews belonging to varying shades of 
caste and clique in that socially sensitive 
Community. But besides these, there was a 
goodly contingent of Gentile dancing men — 
“outsiders, " according to Reuben, every one — 
and a smaller band of Gentile ladies who 
were the fashion of the hour amonof the 
sons of Shem. 

bad form" was the label affixed 
by Reuben to these attractive maids 
and matrons.) 

To give distinction to the scene, there 
were a well-known R.A.., who had painted 
Rose's portrait for last year's Academy ; 
two or three pretty actresses ; an ex 
Lord Mayor, who had been knighted 
while in office ; and last, though by no means 
least in the eyes of the clannish children 
of Israel, Caroline Cardozo and her father. 

" what a pretty girl ' ? " did you say, 
remarked Esther as the music died away. 
" Yes, Judith Ouixano is very good-looking, 
but I don't know that she goes down 
particularly well." 
Mr. Peck made some complimentary 
remark, of a general character, as to the 
beauty of Jewish ladies. 

" Yes, we have some pretty women, " 
Esther answered ; " but our men ! No, 
the Jew, unlike the horse, is not a noble 
animal." 

Esther, it will be seen, was of those who 
walk naked and are not ashamed. 

At this point, a fashionably late hour, a 
new arrival was announced, and in marched 
Netta and Alec Sachs, their heads very 
much in the air, the self assertion of self 
distrust written on every line of their 
Ingenuous countenances. 

Netta, who had had a new dress from 
Paris for the occasion, really looked rather 
well in her own style, which was of the 
exuberant, black haired, highly coloured kind, 
and was at once greeted by one of the 
" outsiders " as an old friend. 
This was no less a person than Adelaide's 
particular prot^gd, Mr. Griffiths, who, ignorant 
of the fine shades of Community 
class distinction, engaged Miss Sachs for 
several dances under the eyes of his 
mortified patroness. Mr. Griffiths indeed 
was an impartial person, who, so long as 
you gave him a good floor, a decent supper, 
and a partner who could “go, " would lend 
the light of his presence to any ballroom 
whatever, whether situated in South 
Kensington or Maida Vale. 

Alec Sachs was less fortunate than his 
sister. There were plenty of men, and 
the girls whom he thought worthy of inviting 
to dance for the most part declared 
themselves engaged. 

This was a new experience to him. His 
skilful dancing ■ — it was of the acrobatic or 
gymnastic order— — powers of " chaff" and 
repartee, above all, his reputation as a parti, 
had secured him a high place among the 
maidens of Maida Vale, 

He stood now, his back to the wall, an 
air of contempt for the whole proceeding 
written on his llorid face, exclaiming loudly 
and petulantly to his sister, whenever he had 
an opportunity : " They don't introduce, 
they don't introduce ! " 

Twelve o'clock was striking as Reuben 
Sachs stepped into the hall, which by this 
time was filled with couples " sitting out " ; 
a few of them really enjoying themselves, 
the great majority gay with that rather 
spurious gaiety, that forcing of the note, 
which is so marked a characteristic of 
festivities. Sounds of waltz music were 
born from the drawing-room, and the 
draped aperture of the doorway — the door 
itself had been removed — showed a capering 
throng of dancers of varying degrees 
of agility. 
Reuben advanced languidly ; his face wore 
the mingled look of exhaustion and nerve 
tension which with him denoted great 
fatigue. 

It had been a long day : in and out of 
court all the morning ; two committee 
meetings, political and philanthropical, respectively, 
later on ; a hurried club dinner ; 
and an interminable first night, with hitches 
in the scene shifting, and long waits between 
the acts. 

He had told himself over and over aeain 
that he would " cut " the dance at his uncle's, 
and here he was — alleging to himself as an 
excuse the impossibility of getting to sleep 
directly after the theatre. 

It was little more than a month that he 
had been home, and already his old enemy, 
insomnia, showed signs of being on the 
track. 

Reuben made his way to a position near 
the foot of the stairs, which afforded a good 
view of the ballroom. 

He could not see Judith, a circumstance 
which irritated him, as he did not wish to 
go in search of her. 

Beyond, in the crowded refreshment room, 
he had a glimpse of Rose, who was exceed 
mg\y friande, giggling behind a large pink 
ice, while Jack Quixano, a look of conscious 
waggishness on his face, dropped confidential 
remarks into her ear. Esther, on the stairs 
behind him, was delivering herself freely of 
cheap epigrams to an impecunious partner ; 
and in a rose lit recess was to be seen 
Montague Cohen, his pale, pompous, feeble 
face wreathed in smiles, enjoying himself 
hugely with a lighthearted matron from the 
Gentile camp. 

The whole scene was familiar enough to 
Reuben, who from his boyhood upward 
had taken part in the festivities of his 

M 
tribe, with their gorgeously gowned and bejewelled 
women, elaborate floral decorations 
and costly suppers. 

The Jew, it may be remarked in 
passing, eats and dresses at least two degrees 
above his Gentile brother in the 
same rank of life. 

The music came to an end, and the 
dancers streamed out from the ballroom. 

Alec Sachs, who had been dancing with 
his sister, brushed past Reuben in the 
throng, and the latter was mechanically 
aware of hearing him say to his partner : 

" Mixed, very mixed ! A scratch lot of 
people call it." 

Lionel Leuniger came rushing up to him 
in all the glory of an Eton suit and a 
white gardenia. 

“So you've come at last, Reuben! You 
are very late, and all the pretty girls are 
engaged. Have a programme ? " 
Reuben did not answer. By this time 
the ballroom was almost empty, and he 
could see clearly into the room beyond, 
where a red cloth recess had been built 
in from the balcony. 

u 2 
There are flashes struck from midnights, there are 

fire flames noondays kindle, 
Whereby piled up honours perish, whereby swollen 

ambitions dwindle. . . . 

Oh, observe ! Of course, next moment, the world's 

honours, in derision. 
Trampled out the light for ever. 

Browning : Christina. 

There were two people sitting there, to 
all appearance completely absorbed in one 
another. In the distance, Judith's head 
bending slightly forward, her profile, the 
curves of her neck and bosom, and the 
white mass of her gown, were to be seen 
clearly outlined against the red. And 
another figure, in close proximity to the 
first, defined itself against the same background. 
Reuben started — Judith and Lee 
Harrison ! 

His apathy, his fatigue, his uncertainty 
as to seeking Judith vanished as by magic. 
Outwardly he looked impassive as ever as 
he strolled into the all but deserted ballroom. 
It would have taken a close observer 
to perceive the repressed intensity of his 
every movement. 

There was a draped alcove dividing the 
front and back drawing rooms where Caroline 
Cardozo and Adelaide were standing 
as Reuben sauntered towards them. 

" I hardly expected to see you, " cried 
his sister as Reuben stopped and greeted 
the ladies. Adelaide was not enjoying herself 
Her social successes, such as they 
were, were not usually obtained in the 
open competition of the ballroom. 
Ami too late for a dance?" asked 
Reuben, turning with deference to Miss 
Cardozo. 

She handed him her card with a faint 
smile ; there were two or three vacant 
places on it. 

A great fortune I am quoting Esther), 
though it always brings proposals of 
marriage, does not so invariably bring invitations 
to dance. Caroline Cardozo was 
a plain, thin, wistful girl, with a shy manner 
that some people mistook for standoffishness, 
who was declared by the men of the 
Leunigers' set to be without an atom of 
•''go." 

Her wealth and importance notwithstanding, 
she was, as Rose in her capacity 
of hostess explained, difficult to get rid of. 

Reuben, his dance duly registered, stood 
talking urbanely, while scrutinising from 
beneath his lids the pair on the balcony. 
A nearer view showed him the unmistakable 
devotion on Bertie's little fair face, 
which was lifted close to Judith's ; he appeared 
to be devouring her with his eyes. 

And Judith ? 

It seemed to Reuben that never before 
had he seen that light in her eyes, never 
that flush on her soft cheek, never that 
strange, indescribable, almost passionate air 
in her pose, in her whole presence. 

His own heart was beating with a wild, 
incredulous anger, an astonished contempt. 
He to be careful of Judith ; he to beware 
of engaging her feelings too deeply, he, 
who after all these years had never been 
able to bring that look into her eyes ! 

Bertie ? it was impossible ! 

In any case with sudden vindictiveness) 
it was unlikely that Bertie himself meant 
anything ; and yet — yet — he was just the sort 
of man to do an idiotic thing of the kind. 
The music struck up, and the dancers 
drifted back to the ballroom. 

Reuben, bowing himself away, turned to 
see Judith and her escort standing behind 
him, while the latter, gathering courage, 
wrote his name again and again on her 
card. 

Reuben remained a moment in doubt, 
then went straight up to her. 

" good evening, Miss Ouixano." 

There was a note of irony in his voice, 
a look of irony on his pale, tense face ; the 
glance that he shot at her from his brilliant 
eyes was almost cruel. 

" Ah, good evening, Reuben." 

She gave a little gasp, thrilled, bewildered. 
Long ago, her searching glance travelling 
across the two crowded rooms had distinguished 
the top of Reuben's head in 
the hall beyond. She knew just the way 
the hair grew, just the way it was lifted 
from the forehead in a sidelong crest, just 
the way it was beginning to get a Little 
thin at the temples. 

Bertie moved off in search of his partner, 
with a bow and a reminder of future engagements. 


" May I have the pleasure of a dance ? " 

Reuben retained his tone of ironical 
formality, but looking into her uplifted face 
his jealousy faded and was forgotten. 

She held up her card with a smile ; it was 
quite full. 

Reuben took it gently from her hand, 
glanced at it, and tore it into fragments. 

Judith said not a word. 

To both of them the little act seemed 
fraught with strange significance, the beginning 
of a new phase in their mutual relations. 

Reuben gave her his arm in silence ; she 
took it, half frightened, and he led her to the 
furthermost corner of the crimson recess. 
The dancers, overflowing from the ballroom 
beyond, closed about it, and they were 
screened from sight. 

Reuben leaned forward, looking at her 
with eyes that seemed literally alight with 
some inward flame. The precautions, the 
restraints, the reserves which had hitherto 
fenced in their intercourse, were for the 
moment overthrown. Each was swept away 
on a current of feeling which was bearing 
them who knew whither ? 

To Judith, Reuben was no longer a 
commodity of the market with a high price 
set on him ; he was a piteous human 
creature who entreated her with his eyes, 
yet held her chained : her suppliant and 
her master. 

A soft wind blew in suddenly through 
the red curtains and stirred the hair on 
Judith's forehead. 

“Aren'T you cold, '*" 
Reuben broke the silence for the first 
time. 

" No, not at all." She smiled, then holdinof 
back the red drapery with her hand, looked 
out into the night. 

The November air was damp, warm, and 
filled full of a yellow haze which any but a 
Londoner would have called a fog. 

Across the yard and a half of garden which 
divided the house from the street, she could 
see the long deserted thoroughfare with its 
double line of lamps, their flames shining 
dull through the mist. 

Reuben watched her. The clear curve of 
the lifted arm, the beautiful lines of the 
half averted face stirred his already excited 
senses. 

Judith!" 

She turned her face, with its almost ecstatic 
look, towards him, letting fall the curtain. 

There were some chrysanthemums like 
snowflakes In her bodice, scarcely showing 
against the white, and as she turned, Reuben 
bent towards her and laid his hand on them. 

" I am going to commit a theft, " he said, 
and his low voice shook a little. 

Judith yielded, passive, rapt, as his fingers 
fumbled with the gold pin. 

1 1 was like a dream to her, a wonderful dream, 
with which the whirling maze of dancers, 
the heavy scents, the delicious music were inextricably 
mingled. And mingling with it also 
was a strange, harsh sound in the street outside, 
which, faint and muffled at first, was 
growing every moment louder and more 
distinct. 

Reuben had just succeeded in releasing the 
flowers from their fastening ; but he held 
them loosely, with doubtful fingers, realising 
suddenly what he had done. 

Judith shivered, vaguely conscious of a 
change in the moral atmosphere. 
The noise In the street was very loud, and 
words could be distinguished. 

" What is it they are saying ? " he cried, 
dropping the flowers, springing to the aperture, 
and pulling back the curtain. 

Outside the house stood a dark figure, 
a narrow crackling sheet flung across one 
shoulder. A voice mounted up, clear in 
discordance through the mist : 

" Death of a Conservative M.P.. ! Death 
of the member for St. Baldwin's ! " 

" Ah, what is it ? " 

Cold, white, trembling, she too heard 
the words, and knew that they were her 
sentence. 

He turned towards her ; on his face was 
the look of a man who has escaped a great 
danger. 

" Poor Ronaldson is dead. It has come 
suddenly at the last. No doubt I shall find 
a telegram at home." 
He spoke in his most e very day tones, 
but he did not look at her. 

She summoned all her strength, all her 
pride : 

" Then I suppose you will be going down 
there tomorrow? ? " 

voice never faltered. 

" No ; in any case I must wait till after 
the funeral." 

He looked down stiffly. It was she who 
kept her presence of mind. 

" Don'T you want to buy a paper and to 
tell Adelaide ? " 

" If you will excuse me. Where shall I 
leave you ? " 

" Oh, I will stop here. The dance is 
just over." 

He moved off awkwardly ; she stood 
there white and straight, and never moving. 

At her feet lay her own chrysanthemums, 
crushed by Reuben's departing feet. 
She picked them up and flung them into 
the street. 

At the same moment a voice sounded at 
her elbow : 

" I have found you at last." 

" Is this our dance, Mr. Lee Harrison } " 
We did not dream, my heart, and yet 
With what a pang we woke at last. 

A. Mary F, Robinson. 

Rose, with a candle in her hand, stood 
at the top of the stairs and yawned. 

It was half past three ; the last waltz had 
been waltzed, the last light extinguished, 
the last carriage had rolled away. 

Bertie, on his road to Albert Hall 
Mansions, was dreaming dreams ; and 
Reuben, as he tossed on his sleepless bed, 
pondering plans for the coming contest, 
was disagreeably haunted by the recollection 
of some white chrysanthemums which he 
had let fall — on purpose. 
" It has been a great success, " said Judith, 
passing by her cousin and going towards 
her own room. 

Rose followed her, and sitting down on 
the bed, began drawing out the pins from 
her elaborately dressed hair. 

" Yes, I think it went off all right. 
Caroline Cardozo stuck now and then, and 
no one would dance with poor Alec, so I 
had to take him round myself" 

Judith laughed. She had danced straight 
through the programme, had eaten supper, 
had talked gaily in the intervals of dancing. 
Rose got up from the bed and went 
over to Judith. 

" Please unfasten my bodice, I have 
sent Marie to bed." 

Then, as Judith complied : 

" What was Reuben telling Adelaide, and 
why did he make off so soon ? " 

" Mr. Ronaldson, the member for St. 

N 
Baldwin's, is dead. A man came and shouted 
the news down the street." 

Her voice was quite steady. 

" What a ghoul Reuben is ! He has been 
waiting to step into that dead man's shoes 
this last month and more. — reuben Sachs, 
M.P.— — brother, the member for St. 
Baldwin's ' — a man told me in the House 
last night ' — my son cannot get away while 
Parliament is sitting— — whole family will 
be quite unbearable." 

Judith bent her head over an obstinate 
knot in the silk dress lace. 

" He is not elected yet, " she said. 

Rose, her bodice unfastened, sprang round 
and faced her cousin. 

" Reuben is as hard as nails ! " she 
cried with apparent inconsequence. " Under 
all that good nature, he is as hard as 
nails!" 

" Undo my frock, please, " said Judith, 
yawning with assumed sleepiness. " It must 
be nearly four o'clock." 

Rose's capable fingers moved quickly in 
and out the lace ; as she drew the tag from 
the last hole, she said : " Well, Judith, when 
are we to congratulate you ? " 

Judith did not affect to misunderstand the 
allusion. Bertie's open devotion had acted 
as a buffer between her and her smartino 
pride, 

“Poor little person!" she said, and 
smiled. 

“You might do worse, " said Rose, gathering 
herself up for departure. 

The mask fell off from Judith's face as the 
door closed on her cousin. She stood there 
stiff and cold in the middle of the room, her 
hands hanging loosely at her side. 

Rose put her head in at the door — 

" Do you know what Jack says ? " she 
began, then stopped suddenly. 

N 2 
“Judith, don't look like that, it is no 
good." 

" No, " said Judith, lifting her eyes, " it is 
no good." Then she went over to the door 
and shut it. 

She sat down on the edge of her little 
white bed, supporting one knee with a 
smooth, solid arm, while she stared into 
vacancy. 

Nothing had happened — nothing ; yet 
henceforward life would wear a different 
face for her and she knew it. 

It was impossible any longer to deceive 
himself. Her wide, vacant eyes saw nothing, 
but her mental vision, grown suddenly acute, 
was confronted by a thronging array of 
images. 

Yes, she was beginning to see it all now ; 
dimly and slowly indeed at first, but with 
ever increasing clearness as she gazed ; to 
see how it had all been from the beginning ; 
how slowly and surely this thing had grown 
about her life ; how in the night a silent foe 
had undermined the citadel. 

She had been caught, snared in a fine, 
strong net of woven hair, this young, strong 
creature. Her streno^th mocked her in the 
clinging, subtle toils. 

She got up from the bed slowly, 
stiffly, and stood again upright in the 
middle of the room. Forced into a position 
alien to her whole nature, to the very essence 
of her decorous, law abiding soul, it was 
impossible that she should not seek to 
strike a blow in her own behalf 

" It is no good, " Rose had said, and she 
had echoed the words. 

She did not put her thought into words, 
but her heart cried out in sudden rebellion, 
" Why was it no good ? " 

She went over mentally almost every 
incident in her intercourse with Reuben : 
saw how from day today, from month to 
month, from year to year they had been 
drawn closer together in ever strengthening, 
ever tightening bonds. She remembered his 
voice, his eyes, his face — his near face — as 
she had heard and seen them a few short 
hours ago. 

The conventions, the disguises, which she 
had been taught to regard as the only 
realities, fell down suddenly before the living 
reality of this thing which had grown up 
between her and Reuben. She recognised 
in it a living creature, wonderful, mysterious, 
beautiful and strong, with all the risfhts of 
its existence. It was impossible that they 
who had given it breath should do violence 
to it, should stain their hands with its 
blood — it was impossible. 

She stood there still, her head lifted up, 
glowing with a strange exultation as her 
pride reasserted itself. 
Opposite was a mirror, a three sided toilet 
mirror, hung against the wall, and suddenly 
Judith caught sight of her own reflected 
face with its wild eyes and flushed 
cheeks ; her face which was usually so 
calm. 

Calm ? Had she ever been calm, save 
with the false calmness which narcotic drusfs 
bestow ? She was frightened of herself, of 
her own daring, of the wild, strange thoughts 
and feelings which struggled for mastery 
within her. There is nothing more terrible, 
more tragic than this ignorance of a woman 
of her own nature, her own possibilities, her 
own passions. 

She covered her face with her hands, 
and in the darkness the thoughts came 
crowding was it thought, or vision, or 
feeling the 

inexorable realities of her world, 
those realities of which she had so rarely 
allowed herself to lose sight, came pressing 
back upon her with renewed insistence. 

That momentary glow of exultation, of 
self vindication faded before the hard daylight 
which rushed in upon her soul. 

She saw not only how it had all been, but 
how it would all be to the end. 

Then once more his low, broken voice was 
in her ear, his supplicating eyes before her ; 
the music, the breath of dying flowers 
assailed once more her senses ; she lived 
over again that near, far off, wonderful 
moment. 

Again Judith dropped her hands to her 
side ; she clenched them in an intolerable 
agony ; she took a few steps and flung 
herself face forwards on the pillow. 

Shame, anger, pride, all were swept away 
in an overwhelming torrent of emotion ; in 
a sudden flood of passion, of longing, of 
desolation. 
Baffled, vanquished, she lay there, crushing 
out the sound of unresisted sobs. 

From her heart rose only the cry of 
defeat : — 

" Reuben, Reuben, have mercy on me ! " 
Man's love is of man's life a thing apart ; 
Tis woman's whole existence. 

Byron. 

Judith slept far into the morning the 
sound, deep sleep of exhaustion ; that sleep 
of the heavy hearted from which, almost 
by an effort of will, the dreams are 
banished. 

The first thing of which she was aware 
was the sound of Rose's voice, and then of 
Rose herself standing over her with a plate 
and a cup of coffee in her hand. Judith 
raised herself on her elbow ; a vague sense 
of calamity clung to her ; her eyes were 
heavy with more than the heaviness of 
sleep. 

" It is ten o'clock, " cried Rose. " I have 
brought you your breakfast. Rather handsome 
of me, isn't it ? " 

" Yes, very, " said Judith, smiling faintly. 
" How came I to sleep so late ? " 

It was quite an event in her well ordered 
existence ; she realised it with a little shock 
which set her memory in motion. 

Judith drank her coffee hastily and 
sprang out of bed. She went through 
her toilet with even more care and 
precision than usual ; there is nothing 
more conducive to self respect than a 
careful toilet. 

Nothing had happened ; everything had 
happened. Judith felt that she had grown 
older in the night. 

All day long people came and went and 
gossiped ; gossiped loudly and ceaselessly 
of last night's party ; more cautiously and 
at intervals of Mr. Ronaldson's death. 

In the evening Adelaide, Esther, and 
Mrs. Sachs came in, but not Reuben. Not 
Reuben — she knew her sentence. 

That brief moment of clear vision, of 
courage, had faded, as we know, even as it 
came. Now she dared not even look back 
upon it — dared not think at all. 

Nothing had happened — nothing. 

She fell back upon the unconsciousness, 
the unsuspiciousness of her neighbours. For 
them the world was not changed ; how was it 
possible that great things had taken place ? 

She talked, moved about, and went 
through all the little offices of her life. 

Now and then she repeated to herself 
the formulae on which she had been 
brought up, which she had always accepted, 
as to the unseriousness, the unreality of the 
romantic, the sentimental in life. 
Two or three days went by without any 
event to mark them. On the fourth, 
Bertie Lee Harrison paid a call of interminable 
length, when Judith, with bright 
eyes and flushed cheeks, talked to him with 
unusual animation. 

In her heart she was thinking : " Reuben 
will never come again, and what shall I 
do ? " 

But the very next day Reuben came. 

It was of course impossible that he 
should stay away for any length of time. 

The Leunigers were at tea in the 
drawing-room after dinner when the door 
was pushed open, and he entered, as usual, 
unannounced. 

Judith's heart leapt suddenly within her. 
The misery of the last few days melted 
like a bad dream. After all, were things 
any different from what they had always 
been ? 
Here was Reuben, here was she, face to 
face — alive— — 

He came slowly forwards, his eyelids 
drooping, an air of almost wooden immobility 
on his face. The black frock coat 
which he wore, and in which he had that 
day attended Mr. Ronaldson's funeral, 
brought out the unusual sallowness of his 
complexion. There was a withered, yellow 
look about him tonight which forcibly 
recalled his mother. 

Judith's heart grew very soft as she 
watched him shaking hands with her aunt 
and uncle. 

" He is not well, " she thought ; then : 
" He always comes last to me." 

But even as this thought flitted across 
her mind Reuben was in front of her, 
holding out his hand. 

For a moment she stared astonished at 
the stiff, outstretched arm, the downcast, 
expressionless face, taking in the exaggerated, 
self conscious indifference of his whole 
manner, then, with lightning quickness, put 
her hand in his. 

It was as though he had struck her. 

She looked round, half expecting a 
general protest against this public insult, 
saw the quiet, unmoved faces, and understood. 


She, too, to outward appearance, was 
quiet and unmoved enough, as she sat there 
on a primrose coloured ottoman, bending 
over a bit of work. But the blood was 
beating and surging in her ears, and her 
stiff, cold fingers blundered impotently with 
needle and thread. 

Reuben finished his greetings, then sat 
down near his uncle. He had come, he 
explained, to say " goodbye" " going 
down to St. Baldwin's, for which, as he had 
expected, he had been asked to stand. 
There was every chance of his being 
returned, Mr. Leuniger believed? ? 

yes. There was a small Radical 
party down there, certainly, beginning to 
feel its way, and they had brought forward 
a candidate. Otherwise there would have 
been no opposition. 

Sir Nicholas Kemys, who had a place 
down there, and who was member for the 
county of which St. Baldwin's was the 
chief town, had been very kind about 
it all. Lady Kemys was Lee Harrison's 
sister. 

Judith listened, cold as a stone. 

How could he bear to sit there, drawling 
out these facts to Israel Leuniger, which in 
the natural course of things should have 
been poured forth for her private benefit 
in delicious confidence and sympathy ? 

Esther, who was spending the evening 
with her cousins, came and sat beside her. 
" You are putting green silk instead of 
blue into those cornflowers, " she cried. 

Judith lifted her head and met the other's 
curious, penetrating glance. 

“When I was a little girl, " cried Esther, 
still looking at her, “a little girl of eight years 
old, I wrote in my prayer book : cursed art 
Thou, O Lord my God, Who hast had the 
cruelty to make me a woman And I have 
gone on saying that prayer all my life — the 
only one." 

Judith stared at her as she sat there, self 
conscious, melodramatic, anxious for effect. 

She never knew if mere whim or a sudden 
burst of cruelty had prompted her words, 

" According to your own account, Esther, " 
she said, " you must always have been a 
little beast." 

Esther chuckled. Judith went on sewino, 
but changed her silks. 

She wondered if the evening would never 

o 
end, and yet she did not want Reuben 
to go. 

He rose at last and made his farewells. 

Judith put out her hand carelessly as he 
approached her, then, drawn by an irresistible 
magnetism, lifted her eyes to his. 

As she did so, from Reuben's eyes flashed 
out a long melancholy glance of passion, of 
entreaty, of renunciation ; and once again, 
even from the depths of her own humiliation, 
arose that strange, yearning sentiment 
of pity, with which this man, who 
was strong, ruthless and successful, had 
such power of inspiring her. 

Only for a moment did their eyes meet, the 
next she had turned hers away — had in her 
turn grown cold and unresponsive. 

How dared he look at her thus ? How 
dared he profane that holiest of sorrows, the 
sorrow of those who love and are by fate 
separated ? 
Wer nie sein Brod mit Thraenen ass, 
Wer nie die kummervolleii Naechte 
Auf seinem Bette weinend sass, 
Der Kennt euch nicht, ihr himmlische Maechte ! 

Goethe. 

There was a little set of shelves in Judith's 
bedroom which contained the whole of her 
modest library, some twenty books in all — 
Lorna Doone iq^'ayx^^ Sterling ; Macaulay's 
Essays ; Hypatia ; The Life of Palmerston; 
the Life of Lord Beaconsfield : these were 
among her favourites, and they had all been 
given to her by Reuben Sachs. 

Like many wholly unliterary people, she 
preferred the mildly instructive even in her 

o 2 
fiction. It was a matter of surprise to her 
that clever creatures, like Leo and Esther for 
instance, should pass whole days when the 
fit was on in the perusal of such works as 
Cometh Up as a Floiucr, and jmolly Bavon. 

But it was not novels, even the less 
frivolous ones, that Judith cared for. 

Rose, whose own literary tastes inclined 
towards the society papers, varied by an 
occasional French novel, had said of her with 
some truth, that the drier a book was, the 
better she liked it. Reuben had lonof aeo 
discovered Judith's power of following out a 
train of thought in her clear, careful way, and 
had taken pleasure in providing her with 
historical essays and political lives, and even 
in leading her through the mazes of modern 
politics. 

Perhaps he did not realise, what it is 
always hard for the happy, objective male 
creature to realise, that if he had happened 
to be a doctor, Judith might have developed 
scientific tastes, or if a clergyman, have 
found nothing so interesting as theological 
discussion and the history of the Church, 

Judith stood before her little library in the 
dark November dawn, with a candle in her 
hand, scanning the familiar titles with weary 
eyes. She was so young and strong, that 
even in her misery she could sleep the 
greater part of the night ; but these last 
few days she had taken to waking at dawn, 
to lying for hours wide eyed in her little 
white bed, while the slow day grew. 

But today it was intolerable, she could 
bear it no longer, to lie and let the heavy, 
inarticulate sorrow prey on her. 

She would try a book ; not a very hopeful 
remedy in her own opinion, but one which 
Reuben, Esther, and Leo, who were all 
troubled by sleeplessness, regarded, she knew, 
as the best thinij under the circumstances, 
So she scanned the familiar bookshelves, 
then turned away ; there was nothing there 
to meet her case. 

She put on her dressing gown and stole 
out softly across the passage to Leo's 
empty room, where she remembered to 
have seen some books. 

Here she set down the candle, and, as 
she looked round the dim walls, her thoughts 
went out suddenly to Leo himself, went out 
to him with a new tenderness, with something 
that was almost beyond comprehension. 

She knew, though she did not use the word 
to herself, that after some blind, groping 
fashion of his own, Leo was an idealist — 
poor Leo ! 

There were books on a table near, and 
she took them up one by one : some volumes 
of Heine, in prose and verse ; the operatic 
score of pai^sifal ; Donaldson on the Greek 
Theatre; and then two books of poetry, 
each of which, had she but known it, 
appealed strongly to two strongly marked 
phases of Leo's mood — Poems and Ballads, 
and a worn green copy of the poems of 
Clough. 

She turned over the leaves carelessly. 

Poetry ? Yes, she would try a little poetry. 
She had always enjoyed reading Tennyson 
and Shakespeare in the schoolroom. So she 
put the books under her arm, went back to her 
room, and crept into her little cold bed. 

She took up the volume of Swinburne 
and began reading it mechanically by the 
flickering candlelight. 

The rolling, copious phrases conveyed 
little meaning to her, but she liked the 
music of them. There was something to 
make a sophisticated onlooker laugh in the 
sight of this young, pure creature, with her 
strong, slow growing passions, her strong, 
slow growing intellect, bending over the 
diffuse, unreserved, unrestrained pages. 
She came at last to one poem, the 
Trimuph of Time, which seemed to have 
more meaning than the others, and which 
arrested her attention, though even this was 
only comprehensible at intervals. She read 
on and on : — 

•'I have given no man of any fruit to eat; 
I have trod the grapes, I have drunken the wine. 
Had you eaten and drunken and found it sweet, 
This wild new growth of die corn and vine, 
This wine and bread without lees or leaven. 
We had grown as gods, as the gods in heaven, 
Souls fair to look upon, goodly to greet, 
One splendid spirit, your soul and mine. 

" In the change of years, in the coil of things, 
In the clamour and rumour of life to be. 
We, drinking love at the furthest springs. 
Covered with love as a covering tree. 
We had grown as gods, as the gods above, 
Filled from the heart to the lips with love, 
Held fast in his arms, clothed warm with his wings, 
O love, my love, had you loved but me \ 
" We had stood as the sure stars stand, and moved 
As the moon moves, loving the world ; and seen 
Grief collapse as a thing disproved, 
Death consume as a thing unclean. 
Twin halves of a perfect heart, made fast 
Soul to soul while the years fell past ; 
Had you loved me once, as you have not loved ; 
Had the chance been with us that has not been." 

The slow tears gathered in her eyes, and 
forcing themselves forward fell down her 
cheeks. 

Then there was, after all, something to 
be said for feelings which had not their 
basis in material relationships. They were 
not mere phantasmagoria conjured up by 
silly people, by sentimental people, by 
women. Clever men, men of distinction, 
recognised them, treated them as of paramount 
importance. 

The practical, if not the theoretical, teaching 
of her life had been to treat as absurd 
any close or strong feeling which had not 
its foundations in material interests. There 
must be no undue giving away of one's self 
in friendship, in the pursuit of ideas, in 
charity, in a public cause. Only gushing 
fools did that sort of thing, and their folly 
generally met with its reward. 

And this teaching, sensible enough in its 
way, had been accepted without question by 
the clannish, exclusive, conservative soul of 
Judith. 

Where your interests lie, there should lie 
your duties ; and where your duties, your 
feelines. A wholesome doctrine no doubt, 
if not one that will always meet the far 
reaching and complicated needs of a human 
soul. 

And if this doctrine applied to friendship, 
to philanthropy, to art and politics, in how 
much greater a degree must it apply to 
love, to the unspoken, unacknowledged love 
between a man and woman ; a thing in its 
very essence immaterial, and which, in its 
nature, can have no rights, no duties 
attached to it ? 

It was the very hatred of the position into 
which she had been forced, the very loathing 
of what was so alien to her whole way of 
life and mode of thought that was giving 
Judith courage ; if she could not vindicate 
herself, she must be simply crushed beneath 
the load of shame. 

On one point, the nature and extent 
of her feeling for Reuben, there could 
no longer be illusion or self deception ; 
she would have walked to the stake 
for him without a murmur, and she knew 
it. 

She knew, too, that Reuben loved her as 
far as in him lay ; knew, with a bitter 
humiliation, how far short of hers fell his 
love. 

Yet deep in her heart lay the touching 
obstinate belief of the woman who loves — 
that she was necessary to him, that she 
alone could minister to his needs ; that in 
turning away from her and her large protection, 
her infinite toleration, he was turning 
away from the best which life had to offer 
him. 

In the first sharp agony of awakening, 
Judith, as we know, had recognised that 
which had grown up between her and 
Reuben as a reality with rights and claims 
of its own. And the conviction of this was 
slowly growing upon her in the intervals of 
the swinging back of the pendulum, when 
she judged herself by conventional standards 
and felt herself withered by her own scorn, 
the scorn of her world, and the scorn of the 
man she loved. 

A great tear splashing down across the 
Triumph of Time recalled her to herself. 

She shut the book and sat up in bed, 
sweeping back the heavy masses of hair from 
her forehead. 

Often and often, with secret contempt and 
astonishment, had she seen Esther dissolved 
in tears over her favourite poets. 

Should she grow in time to be like Esther, 
undignified, unreserved ? Would people talk 
about her, pity her, say that she had had 
unfortunate love affairs ? 

Oh, yes, they would talk, that was the way 
of her world ; even Rose who was kind, and 
her own mother who loved her ; no doubt 
they had begun to talk already. 

Then, with a sense of unutterable weariness, 
she fell back on the pillows and 
slept. 
what help is there ? 

There is no help, for all these things are so. 

A. c Swinburne. 

" Come over here, Judith, and I will show 
you something, " said Ernest Leuniger as he 
sat by the fire in the morning room. 

It was two days after Reuben's departure 
for St. Baldwin's, and Ernest bad returned 
from the country that morning. 

She went over to him, drawing a chair 
close to his. Judith was always very kind 
to him, and he admired her immensely, 
treating her at intervals with a sort of 
gallantry. 

" Now look at me ! " He had the solitaire 
board on his knee, and a little glass ball, 
with coloured threads spun into it, between 
his finofers. 

" There, and there, and there ! " 

Judith bent forward dutifully, watching 
how he lifted the marbles, one after the other, 
from their holes. 

" Don'T you see ? 

He looked at her triumphantly, but a little 
irritated at her obtuseness. 

" Oh, yes, " said Judith vaguely. 

" The figure eight — don't you see ? " 

He pointed to the balls remaining on the 
board. 

" So it is ! Where did you learn to do 
that ? " she asked, smiling gently. 

“Ah, that's telling, isn't it.?" He 
chuckled slily, swept the balls together with 
his hand, and announced his intention of 
going in search of his man, with a view to 
a game of billiards. 
Judith sank back in her chair as the 
door closed on him. The firelight played 
about her face, which, though not less 
beautiful, had grown to look older. She 
had been living hard these last few 
days. 

The door opened, and Rose came in 
with her hat on and a parcel in her 
hand. 

“No tea ? " she cried, kneeling down on 
the hearthrug and holding out her hands 
to the fire. 

" It isn't five o'clock yet." 

There was an air of tension, of expectancy 
almost about Judith which contrasted 
markedly with her habitual serenity. 

Rose turned suddenly. " When, Judith, 
when ? " she cried with immense archness. 

" I don't know, " said Judith quietly. 

There had been a dance the night before 
at the Kohnthals, where Bertie's uncon 
cealed devotion to herself had been one of 
the events of the hour. 

" Judith ! " — Rose regarded her with 
excitement — " do you mean to say he has — 
spoken ? Or are you humbugging in that 
serious way of yours ? " 

mr. Lee harrison has not proposed to 
me, if that is what you want to know." 

Rose unfastened her fur mantle in silence. 
Something in Judith's manner puzzled her. 

" He really is a nice little person, " Rose 
went on after a pause ; " such beautiful 
manners ! " 

" Oh, he hands plates and opens doors 
very prettily." 

Judith spoke with a certain weary scorn, 
which Rose accepted as the tone of depreciation 
natural to a woman who discusses an 
undeclared admirer. 

As a matter of fact, Judith recognised 
clearly the marks of breeding, the hundred 

? 
and one fine differences which distinguished 
Bertie from the people of her set, whose 
manners were almost invariably tinged with 
respect of persons — that sure foe to respect 
of humanity. She recognised them and 
their value as hallmarks, wondering all the 
time with a dreary wonder, that any one 
should attach importance to such things as 
these. 

For in her heart she despised the man. 
His intelligent fluency, his unfailing, monotonous 
politeness were a weariness to her. 

His very readiness to fall down utterly before 
her, seemed to her — alas, poor Judith ! 
— in itself a brand of inferiority. 

" Tea at last, " cried Rose, as the door 
opened. " And Adelaide. What a scent 
you have for tea, Addle." 

Mrs. Montague Cohen swept in past the 
servant with the tray and took possession 
of the best chair. 
“Mamma is here too, " she cried; “she 
and aunt Ada will be in in a minute." 

She drew off her gloves and the two girls 
rose to greet Mrs. Sachs, who at this point 
came with Mrs. Leuniger into the room. 

Judith gave her hand very quietly to 
Reuben's mother, then took her seat at 
some distance from the group round the 
tea table, occupying herself with cutting 
the leaves of a novel that had just arrived 
from Mudie's. 

" Reuben is nominated, " cried Adelaide, 
as she helped herself liberally to teacake" 
" had a telegram this morning." 

“He expects to get in this time ? " 
said Mrs. Leuniger, her pessimistic mind 
reverting naturally to her nephews first 
unsuccessful attempt at embarking on a, 
political career, 

" It won't be for want of interest if he 
doesn't, " said Mrs. Sachs ; " Sir Nicholas 

P 2 
Kemys and his wife are working day and 
night for him — day and night." 

“And Miss Lee harrison, Lady Kemys' 
sister, she seems to be quite specially zealous 
in the good cause, " put in Adelaide with 
meaning. 

Secretly she was mortified at not having 
been asked down to St. Baldwin's for the 
campaign, Reuben having met her hints on 
the subject in a very decided manner. 
There was some satisfaction in ventine her 
feelings on Judith, for whose benefit her 
last remark was uttered. 

" When is the election ? " said Rose, turning 
to her aunt. 

" Not till today week. But I may safely 
say there is no real cause for anxiety." 

“Did you see last night's Globe cried 
Adelaide, “and the St. James s? They 
cracked up Reuben no end." 

Judith had seen them ; she had seen 
also the Pall Mall Gazelle, which expressed 
Itself in very different terms. 

She had put back Poems and Ballads on 
its shelf, and had taken to reading all the 
articles respecting the prospects of the St. 
Baldwin's elections that she could lay hands 
on. 

At least she had a right to be interested 
in what she had been told so much about, 
but there were times when she felt, as she 
read, that her interest was intrusive, a thing 
to be ashamed of. 

" I suppose, " said Rose, " that he is too 
busy to write much." 

" We had a letter yesterday — just a line. 
He seemed in splendid spirits, and has 
promised to wire from time to time, " 
answered Adelaide. 

“A good son, said Mrs. Sachs half 
tenderly, half jestingly, very proudly, " who 
never forgets his mother." 
So the talk went on. 

Judith sat there Listening, cutting open 
her novel, and throwing in a remark from 
time to time. 

Every word that was uttered seemed a 
brick in the wall that was buildinor between 
herself and Reuben. 

In this crisis of his career, so long looked 
forward to, so often discussed, he had no 
need, no thought of her. Adelaide, Esther, 
Rose, all had more claim on him than she ; 
she was shut out from his life. 

Reuben, disappointed, defeated : in such 
a one she would always, in spite of himself, 
have felt her rights. But Reuben, 
hopeful, successful, surrounded by admiring 
friends and relatives, fenced in more closely 
still by his mother's love : from the contemplation 
of this glittering figure, cruel, 
triumphant, she turned away in a stony 
agony of self contempt. 
There was a sound of carnage wheels 
outside, and Lionel, who had been reconnoitring 
in the hall, burst in with the 
announcement, " Grandpapa has come." 

Mrs. Leuniger received the news with 
something like agitation. Old Solomon's 
visits were few and far between, and now 
as he came, with pompous uncertainty of 
step across the room, the whole group by 
the fireplace rose hastily and went to nfeet 
him. 

" Reuben is nominated, " cried Adelaide, 
when the old man had been established 
in a chair. 

“Yes, yes, " said Solomon Sachs, “so 
I hear." 

He turned to his niece : " He ain't lookino; 
well, that boy of yours." 

Mrs. Sachs shifted uneasily. 

" You saw him just before he went, uncle 
Solomon, when he was tired out and not 
himself. He had been running from pillar 
to post all the week." 

Mrs. Leimiger muttered dejectedly : he 
is getting to look like his father." 

Old Solomon raised his square hand to 
his beard, lifting his eyebrows high above 
the grave, shrewd, melancholy eyes. 

Mrs. Sachs started ; a sudden look of 
terror came into her face ; the whites of 
her little hard eyes grew visible. 

" Why don't he marry ? " said Solomon 
Sachs after a pause ; “why don't he marry 
that daughter of Cardozo's ? She's not 
much to look at, certainly, " he added, and 
a wave of whimsical amusement broke out 
suddenly over the large, grave face. 

" Yes, " put in Mrs. Leuniger, unusually 
loquacious. " his wife might see that he 
didn't work himself to death." 

" I don't see how he can work less, " 
cried Adelaide; “he has his way to make. 
And making your way, in these days, means 
pulling a great many strings." 

“Yes, " said Mrs. Sachs, relieved by this 
view of the case, “he must get on." 

Judith began to feel that her powers of 
endurance had their limits. She rose slowly, 
went over to the fireplace for a moment, 
threw a casual remark to Rose, and went 
from the room. 

As she made her way upstairs the postman's 
knock sounded through the house, 
and then Lionel came running to her with 
a letter. 

Her correspondence was very small, and 
she glanced with but faint interest at the 
little packet in her cousin's hand. 

He was carrying it seal upwards, and suddenly 
her heart beat with a wild, mad beating, 
and the colour leapt to her pale cheeks. 

She could see that it was sealed with wax. 
There was only one person that she knew 
who fastened his letters so. Reuben invariably 
made use of the signet ring which 
had belonged to his father, engraved with a 
crest duly bought and paid for at the 
Heralds collec^e. 

She took the precious thing in her hand, 
closing her fingers over it, and smiled radiantly 
at the little boy. 

" Thank you, Lionel." 

Her room gained, she locked the door, 
sat down on the bed, and looked at her 
letter — 

" To Miss Judith Ouixano." 

The writing was certainly not Reuben's, 
and he never used the " To." 

Then she turned it over and examined the 
seal, the seal that was totally unfamiliar. 
She felt a little sick, a little dazed, and 
leaned her head against the wall. 

After a time she opened the letter and 
read it. 
It was from Bertie Lee harrison, who 
asked her to be his wife. 

It was a long letter, and stated, amongst 
other things, that he had already obtained his 
uncle's permission to address her. 

Old Solomon's words as to his grandson's 
marriage flashed into her mind. It struck her 
that these plans for Reuben, for herself, 
were nothing less than an outrage. 

It struck her also that she might marry 
Bertie. 

All her courage had deserted her, all her 
daring of thought and feeling, in the face of 
a world where thought and feeling were kept 
apart from word and deed. 

She too must fall down and worship at the 
shrine of the great god Expediency. 

For how, otherwise, could she live her 
life? 

Thrust out from Reuben's friendship, from 
all that made her happiness ; shorn of self 
respect, of the respect of her world ; how 
could she bear to go on ui the old track ? 

To her blind misery, her ignorance, Bertie 
was nothing more than a polite little figure 
holding open for her a door of escape. 
O Thursday let it be : o Thursday, tell her, 
She shall be married to this noble earl. 

Romeo and Juliet. 

The news of Bertie's proposal spread like 
fire in the family. 

Rose had a vision of bridesmaids gowns 
and of belted earls at the wedding. Lionel 
and Sidney, who always knew everything 
without being told, scented wedding cake 
from afar, and indulged in a great deal of 
chaff sotto voce at their cousin's expense. 

Adelaide was so excited when the news 
reached her, that she flattened her nose with 
the handle of her parasol, and exclaimed with 
her usual directness : " I wonder if the 
Norwood people will receive her." 

Like every one else, she took for granted 
that Judith would not be allowed to let slip 
so brilliant an opportunity. 

A little maidenly hesitation, a little genuine 
reluctance perhaps — for Bertie was not the 
man to take a girl's fancy — and Judith would 
give further proof of her good sense ; would 
open her mouth and shut her eyes and 
swallow what the Fates had sent her. 

Poor Mrs. Ouixano, greatly agitated, 
vibrated between the Walterton Road and 
Kensington Palace Gardens, expending quite 
a little fortune on blue omnibuses. 

It took a long time for her brother to convince 
her that Bertie's spurious Judaism could 
for a moment be accepted as the real thing. 

" He is not a Jew, " she reiterated obstinately 
; " would you let your own daughter 
marry him ? " 
Israel Leuniger evaded the question. 

" My dear Golda, he is as much a Jew as 
you or I. Her father is perfectly satisfied, as 
well he may be — it is a brilliant match." 

Mrs. Leuniger realised perfectly the 
meaning of ^^5000 a year, Bertie's other 
advantages, such, for instance, as his connexion 
with the Norwoods, had little weight 
with her. If he had been one of the 
Cardozos, or of the Silberheims — the great 
Jewish bankers — she could have understood 
all this fuss about his family. 

" Who are the girls to marry in these 
days ? " Mrs. Sachs said later on, as she, 
Mrs. Ouixano, and Mrs. Leuniger sat in consultation. 
“If I had unmarried daughters 
I should tell them they would have to marry 
Germans." 

The extreme nature of this statement did 
not fail to impress her hearers. 

While the matrons sat in conclave in 
the primrose coloured drawing-room, Judith 
upstairs in her own little domain was trying 
to come to a decision on the subject of their 
discussion. 

She had asked for time, for a few days 
in which to make up her mind, and of 
these, three had already gone by. But 
from the first there had always been this 
thing in her mind, this thing from which 
she shrank — that she would marry Bertie. 

Her loneliness, her utter isolation of 
spirit in that crowded house where she was 
for the moment a centre of interest, a 
mark for observation, are difficult to realise. 
A severance of home ties had been to a 
certain extent involved in her change of 
homes. Her nearest approach to intimate 
women friends were Rose and Esther. 
As for the one friend who had wound 
his way into her reserved, exclusive soul, 
who had made a path into her enclosed, 
restricted life, he was her friend no 
more. 

Reuben, oh, humiliation! ! shown her 
plainly that he was afraid of her ; afraid 
of any claims she might choose to base 
on the friendship which had existed between 
them. There was always this thought 
in her mind goading her. 

On the faces round her she read nothing 
but anxiety that she would make up her 
mind without delay. She knew what was 
expected of her. 

Sometimes she thought she could have born 
it better if some one had said outright : 

" We know that you love Reuben ; that 
Reuben loves you after a fashion. But it 
is no good crying for the moon ; take your 
half loaf and be thankful for it." 

It was this absolute, stony ignoring of 
all that had gone before which seemed to 
crush the life out of her. 

Q 
She was orrowinsf to feel that in loving: 
Reuben she had committed a crime too 
shameful for decent people even to speak of. 

That Reuben had ever loved her she now 
doubted. It had all been a chimaera of the 
emotional female brain, of which Reuben, 
who was subject, as we know, to occasional 
lapses of taste, had often confided to her 
his contempt. Yet even now there were 
moments when, rememberinof all that had 
gone before, it seemed to her impossible 
that Reuben should do long without her. 

If she flew in the face of nature and said 
" Yes " to Bertie, surely he would come forward 
and protest against such an outrage. 

Every day she devoured the scraps of 
news which the papers contained respecting 
the coming election at St. Baldwin's. 

Sometimes her mind dwelled on the splendours 
of the prospect held out before her ; 
splendours which, in her ignorance, she was 
disposed to exaggerate. Reuben, climbing 
to those social heights, which for herself 
she had always deemed inaccessible, Reuben 
reaching the summit, would find her 
there before him. That would impress 
him greatly, she knew. 

Let this thought be forgiven her ; let it 
be remembered who was her hero, and how 
little choice there had been for her in the 
matter of heroes. 

Yet such are the contradictions of our 
nature, that had the Admirable Crichton stood 
before her, Don Quixote, or Sir Galahad 
himself, I cannot answer for Judith that she 
would not have turned from them to the mixed, 
imperfect human creature — Reuben Sachs. 

So she sat there swaying this way and 
that, and then the door opened and her 
mother came in. Mrs. Quixano, we know, 
was not pleased at heart, but she had become 
very anxious for the marriage. 

Q 2 
Judith listened passively as the advantages 
of her future position were laid before 
her. 

Then she made her protest, fully conscious 
of its weakness. 

i do not like Mr. Lee Harrison." 

“Of course not, " said Mrs. Ouixano. “I 
should be sorry to hear that you did. No 
girl likes her intended — at first." 

Judith bowed her head, conscious, ashamed. 

Only that afternoon Rose had said to her : 
“We all have to marry the men we don't 
care for. I shall, I know, although I have a 
lot of money. I am not sure that it is not 
best in the end." 

And she sighed, as a red headed, cousinly 
vision rose before her mental sight. 

" You are coming home with me, " went 
on Mrs. Quixano, “then we can talk it over 
comfortably. You mustn't keep the poor man 
waiting much longer." 
Mrs. Leuniger came in as Judith was 
tying her bonnet strings. 

“Judith is coming with me, " said her 
mother. 

Aunt Ada drifted slowly across the room 
to where Judith was standing. She looked 
at her with her miserable eyes, rubbing her 
hands together as she said : 

" You had better write to Mr. Lee Harrison 
before you go. You won't get such an opportunity 
as this every day." 

Judith stared at her aunt in a sort of 
desperation. 

She, too ? Aunt Ada, who all the days 
of her life had known wealth, splendour, 
importance, and, as far as could be seen, 
had never enjoyed an hour's happiness ! 

She looked at the dejected, untidy figure, 
with the load of diamonds on the fingers, 
the rich lace round neck and wrists, the 
crumpled gown of costly silk. 
Aunt Ada still believed in these things 
then ; in diamonds, lace and silk ? Did 
not wring her hands and cry, " all is 
vanity ! " 

Hers was truly an astonishing manifestation 
of faith. 

Judith sat in her father's study in the 
Walterton Road. 

On the desk before her lay the letter 
which she had written and sealed to Mr. 
Lee harrison, containing her acceptance of 
his offer. 

A certain relief had come with the deed. 
She had opened up for herself a new field 
of action ; she would be reinstated in the 
eyes of her world, in Reuben's eyes, in her 
own. 

She was so strong, so cruelly vital that 
it never for an instant occurred to her that 
she might pine and fade under her misery. 
She would have laughed to scorn such a 
thought. 

Not thus could she hope for escape. A new 
field of action — there lay her best chance. 

Her father came up to her and put his 
hand on her shoulder. She lifted her 
mournful glance to his ; the kind, vague 
regard was inexpressibly soothing after the 
battery of eyes to which she had been 
recently exposed. 

" I hope, my dear, " said Joshua Ouixano, 
that you are quite happy in this engagement 
? " 

" Oh, yes, papa, " answered Judith ; but 
suddenly, as she spoke, the tears welled to 
her eyes and poured down her face. 

Such a display of feeling on her part was 
without precedent. Both father and daughter 
were exceedingly shy, though in neither case 
with that shyness which manifests itself in 
outward physical flutter. 
Mr. Quixano, deeply moved, stretched out 
his arms, and putting them about her, drew 
her close against him. 

" My dear girl, my dear girl, you are not 
to do this unless you are sure it is for 
your happiness. Remember, there is always 
a home for you here. You can always come 
back to us." 

She let her face lie on his breast, while 
the tears flowed unchecked. His words, the 
kind, timid, caressing movements with which 
he accompanied them were sweet to her, 
though in the depths of her heart she knew 
that there was no turning back. 

Material advantage ; things that you could 
touch and see and talk about ; that these 
were the only things which really mattered, 
had been the unspoken gospel of her life. 

Now and then you allowed yourself the 
luxury of a fine sentiment in speech, but 
when it came to the point, to take the best 
that you could get for yourself was the 
only course open to a person of sense. 

The push, the struggle, the hunger and 
greed of her world rose vividly before her. 
Wealth, power, success — a flaunting success 
for all men to see ; had she not believed 
in these things as the most desirable 
on earth ? Had she not always wished them 
to fall to the lot of the person dearest to 
her ? Did she not believe in them still ? 
Was she not doing her best to secure them 
for herself? 

But she was Joshua Ouixano's daughter — 
was it possible that she cared for none of 
these thines ? 
The essence of love is kindness ; and indeed it may 
be best defined as passionate kindness. 

R. l Stevenson. 

There is nothing more dear to the Jewish 
heart than an engagement ; and when, four 
days after the events of the last chapter, 
that between Judith and Bertie was made 
pubhc, congratulations flowed in, people 
called at all hours of the day, and the 
house in Kensington Palace Gardens presented 
a scene of cheerful activity and 
excitement. 

The Community, after much discussion, 
much shaking of heads over the degeneracy 
of the times, had decided on accepting 
Bertie's veneer of Judaism as the real thing, 
and the engagement was treated like any 
other. If Mr. Lee Harrison had continued 
in the faith of his fathers this would not 
have been the case. Though both engagement 
and marriaofe would In a o^reat number 
of instances have been countenanced, their 
recognition would have been less formal 
and public, and of course a fair proportion 
of Jews would never have recognised them 
at all. 

As it was, the brilliancy of the match was 
considered a little dimmed by the fact of 
Bertie's not being of the Semitic race. It 
showed indifferent sportsmanship, if nothing 
else, to have failed in bringing down one 
of the wily sons of Shem. 

The Samuel Sachses came over at the 
first opportunity to zuisli joy, as they themselves 
expressed it, and inspect the new 
fiance. 
It is possible that they were not well 
received, for Netta gave out subsequently, 
whenever the Lee Harrisons were in 
question : " We don't visit. Mamma doesn't 
approve of mixed marriages." 

The day on which the engagement was 
announced happened also to be that of the 
election, and in the course of the afternoon 
Adelaide burst in, much excited by the 
double event. 

" An overwhelming majority ! " she cried ; 
" Reuben is in by an overwhelming 
majority." 

Then going up to Judith, she gave her 
a soundinof kiss. 

" I am so glad, dear, " she said gushingly. 

Judith submitted to this display of 
affection with a good grace. 

For the last four days she had been 
living in a dream ; a dream peopled by 
phantoms, who went and came, spoke and 
smiled, but had about as much reality as 
the figures of a magpie lantern. 

As before Bertie's proposal she had been 
too much preoccupied to be much aware 
of him, so now she continued to accept 
his attentions in the same spirit of amiable 
indifference and unconsciousness. Bertie, 
as Gwendolen Harleth said of Grandcourt, 
was not disgusting. He took his love, 
as he took his religion, very theoretically. 
There was something not unpleasant 
in the atmosphere of respectful devotion 
with which he contrived to surround her. 

" Where is your young man ? " went on 
Adelaide, taking a seat close to Judith, 
and noting with admiration the rich 
colour in her face, the wonderful brilliance 
of her eyes. 

She felt very friendly towards the girl, who 
was safely out of her brother's way, and 
was doing so remarkably well for herself. 
Afterwards she observed to her husband : 
" Judith looked quite good-looking. I 
always say there is nothing like being 
engaged for improving a girl's complexion." 


" Am I my young man's keeper ? " 
answered Judith lightly. " But I believe 
he is at Christie's." 

" When can you come and dine with us ? " 
went on Adelaide, who had never asked 
Judith to dinner before. " I will get some 
pleasant people to meet you. You shall 
choose your own night. Reuben must come 
as well — if he is not too jealous." 

Adelaide did not mean to be cruel. 
She honestly believed that before the 
solid reality of an engagement, such vapour 
as unspoken, unacknowledged feeling must 
at once have melted. 

And Judith was beyond being hurt by her 
words. 
" I don't know exactly when we can come. 
Blanche Kemys wants us to go down there 
for a day or two next week. And we are 
half promised to Geraldine Sydenham for 
the week after." 

She pronounced these distinguished names 
thus familiarly with a secret amusement, a 
sense that there was really a great deal of 
fun to be got out of Adelaide. 

Mrs. Cohen stared open mouthed, frankly 
impressed. 

She had no idea that Bertie's people 
would come round without any difficulty in 
that way, and visions of herself and Monty 
honoured guests at Norwood Towers began 
to dance before her mental vision. 

Esther, noting the little comedy, smiled 
to herself. She had perhaps a clearer view 
of Judith's state of mind than any one else. 

Judith indeed had almost succeeded in 
banishing thought during the last few days. 
The persistent questions : " What will 
Reuben think?" “When will he know?" 
were the nearest approach to thought she 
had allowed herself. 

Rose, who was thoroughly enjoying the 
engagement, and had confided to Judith that, 
once married, " she would be all right" came 
in at this point, and in her turn was made 
acquainted with the results of the election. 

" Reuben comes back tonight by the last 
train, the 12.15 " added Mrs. Cohen. 

Judith thought : “He knows now." 

Lady Kemys would certainly have told 
him what that morning had been a public 
fact. 

People streamed in and out all the afternoon, 
greatly disappointed at not finding 
Bertie. 

At six Judith, at the instigation of Rose, 
went to dress for dinner. Bertie had announced 
his intention of coming early. 
As she shut the drawing-room door 
behind her, the muscles of her face relaxed, 
she stood a moment at the foot of the stairs 
like a figure of stone. 

Mrs. Sachs, emerging from Mr. Leuniger's 
private room, where she had been imparting 
the news of her son's triumph, 
came upon her thus. 

" My dear ! " she cried, going up to her. 

Judith roused herself at once, and held 
out her hand with the comedy smile which 
she had learned to wear these last few 
days. 

Mrs. Sachs looked up at her, curiously 
moved. “My dear, I have to congratulate 
you." 

" And I to congratulate you, Mrs. Sachs 

Their eyes met. 

Hitherto Judith had been too proud to 
make the least advance to Reuben's mother, 
to respond even to any advance the latter 

R 
might choose to make. But things were 
changed between them now. 

She looked down at the sallow face, the 
shrewd eyes lifted to hers, almost, it seemed, 
in deprecation, in sympathy almost. 

Her beautiful face quivered ; stooping 
forward, she pressed her lips with siidden 
passion to the other's wrinkled cheek. 
this life's end, and this love bliss have been 

lost here. Doubt you whether 
This she felt, as looking at me, mine and her souls 

rushed together ? 

Browning : Christina. 

Esther sat a little apart, watching the 
lovers. 

" Does she think he is a cardboard man 
to play with, or an umbrella to take shelter 
under ? " she reflected. a lover may be 
a shadowy creature, but husbands are made 
of flesh and blood. Doesn'T she see already 
that he is as obstinate as a mule, and as 
whimsical as a goat ? " 

And she repeated the phrase to herself 
well pleased with it. 

R 2 
It was Sunday, the day following that of 
the election. A great family party had dined 
in Kensington Palace Gardens, and now were 
awaiting Reuben in the primrose coloured 
drawing-room. 

Judith, side by side with Bertie, was 
listening amiably to a fluent account of his 
adventures in Asia Minor, in which he dwelled 
a great deal on his state of mind and state 
of health at the time ; while Rose played 
scraps of music for the benefit of Jack 
Ouixano, who had a taste for comic opera. 

Judith was in such a state of tension 
as scarcely to be conscious of pain. Her 
duties as Jiancde were clearly marked out ; 
anything was better than those days of 
chaos, of upheaval, which had preceded her 
engagement. 

Esther's favourite phrase, that marriage 
was an opiate, had occurred to her more 
than once during the past week. 
“I sat up all night long, and read every 
word of it. I was determined to make up 
my mind once for all, " Bertie was saying. 

Rose, at the piano, put her hand on her 
hip and hummed a scrap from a music hall 
song, while Jack whistled an accompaniment 
: 

" Stop the cab, 
Stop the cab, 
Woh, woh, woh ! " 

The hall door banged to with some 
violence. 

The voices of Lionel and Sidney were 
heard upraised without : 

" Vote for Sachs ! Vote for Sachs, the 
people's friend ! " 

Then came the sound of another voice — 

" My head was like a live coal, and my 
feet were as cold as stones. . went on 
Bertie. 

Judith looked sympathetic, and her heart 
leapt suddenly within her : it had not yet 
unlearnt the trick of leaping at the sound 
of Reuben's voice. Lionel flung open the 
door and capered into the room. 

Behind him came Reuben Sachs. 

Judith knew nothing more till she and 
Reuben were standing face to face, holding 
one another's hands. 

Whatever had happened before, whatever 
happened afterwards, she will remember 
to the day of her death that in that one 
moment, at least, they understood one 
another. 

No need for question, for answer, for 
explanation of motives and feelings. 

It was all as clear as daylight, in that 
strange, brief, interminable moment which 
to the onlookers showed nothino more than 
a pale, tired looking gentleman offering 
his congratulations on her engagement to a 
flushed, bright eyed lady. 
Even that sharp battery of eyes could 
discover nothing more than this. 

It was not long before the hall door 
closed again upon Reuben. 

He flung out into the night. 

" Good God, good God ! " he said to 
himself. Not till he had actually seen her 
had he been able to realise what had 
happened ; to understand what manner of 
change had come into his life ; to see what 
might have been, and what was. 

He had so many things to tell her, which 
might never now be told. The blind, 
choking rage of a baffled creature came 
over him ; he sped on, stifled, through 
the darkness. 

Judith, sitting dazed and smiling in the 
gaslight, said over and over again in 
her heart : 

" Oh my poor Reuben, my poor, poor 
Reuben ! " 
At the piano Rose and Jack sang in 
chorus : 

" For he's going to marry, Yum Yum, 

Yum Yum. 
Your anger pray bury, 
For all will be merry, 
I think you had better succumb, 

cumb — cumb ! " 

At the beginning of January there was 
a wedding at the synagogue in Upper 
Berkeley Street which excited unusual 
interest. 

The beautiful bride in her white silk 
dress was greatly admired. She was very 
pale, certainly, and in her wide open eyes 
an acute observer might have read an expression 
of something like terror ; but acute 
observers, fortunately, are few and far 
between. The bridegroom, to all appearance, 
enjoyed himself immensely, going 
through the whole pageant with great 
exactness, smashing the wine glass vigour 
ously with his little foot, and sipping the 
wine daintily from the silver cup. 

Old Solomon Sachs, whose own daughters 
had been married in the drawing-room at 
Portland Place, but who had no prejudice 
against the new fashion of weddings in the 
synagogue, occupied a prominent place near 
the ark, surrounded by his family. 

Reuben Sachs stood close to Leopold 
Leuniger, a little in the background. His 
face was absolutely expressionless, unless 
weariness may be allowed to count as expression. 
He wanted yet a year or two of 
thirty, and already he was beginning to lose 
his look of youth. Leo, it must be owned, 
paid little attention to the ceremony. His 
eyes roved constantly to where the bridegroom's 
family, the Lee harrisons and the 
Norwoods, stood together in a rather chilly 
group ; to where, in particular, Lady 
Geraldine Sydenham, in her unassertive, 
unaccentuated costume, leaned lightly 
against a porphyry column. 

Bertie's people had accepted the situation 
with philosophy, and were really fond of 
Judith, but they found her family, especially 
in its collateral branches, uncongenial, if not 
worse. 

On the outskirts of this group hovered 
Montague Cohen, absolutely rigid with Importance. 
Near him Adelaide tossed her 
head in its smart new bonnet from side to 
side, her sallow face and diamond earrings 
flashing this way and that throughout the 
ceremony. 

She knew that such restlessness was not 
good manners, but for the life of her she 
could not resist the temptation of seeing all 
that was to be seen. 

Poor Mrs. Quixano, proud, but vaguely 
distressed, stood near her husband ; while 
Jack, the picture of nimble smartness, 
ushered every one into their places and 
made himself generally useful. 

The wedding was followed by a reception 
; and afterwards, amid showers of 
rice from Lionel and Sidney, the newly 
married pair set out en route for Italy. 
It was the beginning of May, a bright, 
balmy evening, and the London season was 
in full swing. 

The trees in Kensington Gardens wore 
yet that delicate brilliance of early spring, 
which, a passing glory all the world over, is 
in London the glory of an hour. 

Under the trees children were playing 
and calling ; out beyond in the road a 
ceaseless stream of cabs, carriages, carts, and 
omnibuses rolled by. 

The broad back of the Prince Consort, 
gold beneath his golden canopy, shone forth 
with unusual splendour ; the marble groups 
beneath stood out clearly against the soft 
background of pale blue sky. 

And in the air — the London air — lingered 
something of the freshness of evening and of 
spring, mixed though it was with the odour 
of dinners in preparation, and with that of the 
bad tobacco which rose every now and then 
from the tops of the crowded road cars 
rolling by. 

The windows of a flat in the Albert Hall 
Mansions opposite were open, and a lady 
who was standing by one of them could smell 
the characteristic London odour, and could 
hear the sound of the children's voices, the 
rolling and turning of the wheels, and the 
shuffle and tramp of footsteps on the pavement 
below. She stood there a moment, 
one bare, beautiful hand and arm resting on 
the back of an adjacent couch, her eyes 
mechanically fixed on the glistening gilt 
cross surmounting the Albert Memorial, then 
she turned away suddenly, the thick, rich folds 
of her white silk dress trailing heavily behind 
her. The room across which she moved was 
small, but bright, and fitted up with the varied 
and elaborate luxury of a modern fashionable 
drawing-room. Among the articles of brie a 
brae, costly, interesting, or merely bizarre 
which adorned it, were an antique silver 
Hamieah lamp and a spice box, such as the 
Jews make use of in certain religious services, 
of the same metal. 

Judith Lee harrison, for it was she, went 
over to the mantelpiece and consulted a little 
carriage clock which stood upon it. 

It was barely three months since her 
marriage, though to judge from the great, if 
undefinable change which had passed over 
her, it might have been the same number of 
years. 

Her beauty indeed had ripened and 
deepened, so that it would have been 
impossible for the least observant person to 
pass it by, and the little over emphasis of 
fashion which had hitherto marred the 
perfect distinction of her appearance, had 
vanished. 

" Mrs. Lee harrison would be a beauty if 
she cared about it, " is the verdict of the 
world to which she had been introduced 
little more than a month ago. 

But it was sufficiently evident that Mrs. 
Lee harrison did not care. 

There was something almost austere in 
the pose of the head and figure, the lines of 
the mouth, the look in the wonderful eyes. 

Those eyes, to a close observer indeed 
told that Judith had learned many things, 
had grown strangely wise these last three 

months. 

Yes, she knew now more clearly what 
before she had only dimly and instinctively 
felt : the nature and extent of the wrong 
which had been perpetrated ; which had been 
dealt her ; which she in her turn had dealt 
herself and another person. 

She stood idly by the mantelpiece, staring 
at the mass of invitation cards stuck into the 
mirror above it. 

One of them told that Lady Kemys would 
be at home that night in Grosvenor Place at 
nine o'clock. It was to be a political party, 
and like all such gatherings would begin 
early, for which reason she had dressed 
before dinner. 

She took the card from its place and read 
it over. Reuben would be there of course. 

Well, they would shake hands perhaps ; 
she, for one, would be very amiable ; they 
might even talk about the weather ; and 
would he ask her to have an ice ? 

She put back the card indifferently ; it 
mattered so little. 

She had been home a month from Italy, 
and, as It happened, she and Reuben had 
not yet met. 

The Lee harrisons had dined duly in 
Kensington Palace Gardens, but Reuben 
had been unavoidably detained that night 
at the House. 

He had called on her some weeks ago, 
and she had been out. 

But rumours of him had reached her. 
He had addressed his constituents with 
great <fclat in the recess, and was already 
beginning to attract attention from the 

leader of his party. 

As for more intimate matters, there were 
reports current connecting his name with 
Caroline Cardozo, with Miss Lee harrison, 
and with a chorus girl at the Gaiety. 

Some people said he was only waiting for 
old Solomon's death to marry the chorus girl. 

The last month, which had been full of 
new experiences, of social events for Judith, 

s 
seemed curiously long as she stood there 
looking back on it. 

It came over her that she was in a fair 
way to drift off completely from her own 
people ; they and she were born on dividing 
currents. 

A sudden longing for the old faces, the 
old ties and associations came over her 
as she stood there ; a strange fit of homesickness, 
an inrushing sense of exile. 

Her people — oh, her people ! — to be back 
once more among them ! When all was said, 
she had been so happy there. 

A servant entered with a letter. 

Judith, glancing again at the clock, saw 
that it was nearly eight, and said, as she 
opened the envelope, 

“Has Mr. Lee harrison come in?" 

He had come in half an hour ago, when 
she had been dressing, and had gone straight 
to his room. 
The gong sounded for dinner as the man 
spoke, and a few minutes afterwards Bertie 
came tripping in, fully equipped for the 
festivities of the evening. 

" Blanche expects us early, " said Judith 
as she swept across to the diningroom and 
took her place at the little round table. 

Bertie looked across at her doubtfully, 
then put his spoon into the excellent white 
soup before him. 

It was the first time for some weeks 
that they had dined alone together, and 
conversation did not flow freely. 

Bertie looked up again, fixing his eyes, 
not on her face, but on the row of pearls 
at her throat. 

" My dear, you will be very much 
shocked. " 

“Yes?" said Judith interrogatively, eating 
her soup. 

" Reuben Sachs is dead." 
“It is not true, " said Judith, and then 
she actually smiled. 

The room was whirling round and round, 
a strange, thick mist was over everything, 
and through it came the muffled sound of 
Bertie's voice : 

“It occurred this afternoon, quite suddenly. 
I heard it at the club. He had 
not been well for some time, and had 
collapsed more or less the last week. 
But no one had any idea of danger. It 
seems that his heart was weak ; he had 
been overdoing himself terribly, and cardiac 
disease was the immediate cause of his 
death — cardiac disease, " repeated Bertie, 
with mournful enjoyment of the phrase, 
and pulling a long face as he spoke. 

Judith, sitting there like an automaton, 
eating something that tasted like sawdust, 
something that was difficult to swallow, was 
vividly conscious of only this — that Bertie 
must be silenced at any cost. Anything else 
could be born, but not Bertie's fluent reerets. 

Another woman would have fainted : 
there had never been any mercy for her : 
but at least she would not sit there while 
Bertie talked of it. 

So she lifted up her face, her stony face, 
and turned the current of his talk. 

Dinner came to an end at last and the 
automatic woman passed across to the 
sitting room. 

Her husband followed her ; she stared 
at him. 

“You must take my excuses to Blanche. 
It is due to my family that I should net 
appear tonight in public." 

" Certainly, certainly ; a mark of respect, 
Blanche will understand. We will neither 
of us go." 
She looked at him in horror, all her force 
of will gathered to a point : " Go — go ! 
Blanche will expect it. There is no reason 
for you to stop here." 

" My dear girl, do you think I can't 
stand an evening alone with you ? It will 
be a change, quite a pleasant change." 

He had gone at last, and she stood there 
motionless by the mantelpiece, staring at 
the card for Lady Kemys' “At home." 

“Infinite reons " seemed to divide the 
present moment from that other moment, 
half an hour ago, when she had told herself 
carelessly, indifferently, that she would 
meet Reuben that night. 

It struck her now that all the sorrow 
of her life, all the suffering she had undergone 
would be wiped out, would be as 
nothing, if only she could indeed meet 
Reuben — could see his face, hear his voice, 
touch his hand. Everything else looked 
trivial, imaginary ; everything else could 
have been forgotten, forgiven ; only this 
thing could never be forgiven him, this 
inconceivable thinq^ — that he was dead. 

She knew that her agony was not yet 
upon her, that she was dazed, stunned, 
without feeling. A dim foreshadowing of 
what that agony would be was slowly 
creeping over her. 

She moved across to a chair by the open 
window, and sat down. 

The children's voices were silent ; the 
iron gates were shut ; the gold cross above 
the Memorial shone like fire as the rays 
of the setting sun fell upon it. 

And below in the roadway the ceaseless 
stream of carriages moved east and west. 
On the pavement the people gathered, 
thicker and thicker. A pair of lovers 
moved along slowly, close against the 
park railings, beneath the shadow of the 
trees. 

The pulses of the great city beat and 
throbbed ; the great tide roared and lowed 
ever onwards. 

London, his London, was full of life 
and sound, a living, solid reality ; not — 
oh, wonder ! — a dream city that melted and 
faded in the sunset. 

Across the great gulf she could never 
stretch a hand. Death had thrown down 
no barriers, had brought them no nearer to 
one another. Wider and deeper — though 
before it had been very wide and deep — 
flowed the stream between them. 

Nearer and nearer came the sound, nearer 
and nearer. Where had she heard it 
before .■* 
There was music in her ears now, the 
dreamy monotony of a waltz ; the scent 
of dying flowers — tuberose, gardenia — was 
wafted in from some unseen region. It 
was a November night, not springtime sunset, 
and the harsh sound struck upwards 
through the mist : 

" Death of a Conservative IP! ! 
of the member for St. Baldwin's ! " 

Away in Cambridge Leo paced beneath 
the lime trees, a sick, blank horror at his 
heart. 

Nearer, across that verdant stretch of 
twilit park, sat a wrinkled image of 
despair, surely a mark for the mirth of 
ironical crods. 

And here by the open window sat 
Judith, absolutely motionless — a figure of 
stone. 
Before the great mysteries of life her 
soul grew frozen and appalled. 

It seemed to her, as she sat there in 
the fading light, that this is the bitter 
lesson of existence : that the sacred 
serves only to teach the full meaning 
of sacrilege ; the beautiful of the hideous ; 
modesty of outrage ; joy of sorrow ; life 
of death. 

Is life indeed over for Judith, or at 
least all that makes life beautiful, worthy — a 
thing in any way tolerable ? 

The ways of joy like the ways of sorrow 
are many ; and hidden away in the depths 
of Judith's life — though as yet she knows 
it not — is the germ of another life, which 
shall quicken, grow, and come forth at 
last. Shall bring with it no doubt, pain 
and sorrow, and tears ; but shall bring also 
hope and joy, and that quickening of 
purpose which is perhaps as much as any 
of us should expect or demand from 
Fate. 

THE END. 
